Hi I'm Jake Kitchener, I'm a Senior Technical 
Staff Member here at IBM Cloud and the Lead   Architect for IBM Cloud Satellite, an exciting 
product that we have available for you now in   IBM Cloud. What is IBM Cloud Satellite? IBM Cloud 
Satellite is a platform service that allows us to   expand the reaches of IBM Cloud to infrastructure 
outside of IBM Cloud data centers. A powerful   technology if you want to be able to consume 
cloud services, but you need to be able to use it   closer to your data, whether that may be in your 
on-premises data center, on another cloud provider   where you may have a data lake, or potentially 
it's sitting on your desk like I have right here.   Today I've got three Intel NUCs that I'm going 
to be using to set up a Satellite location   which I think is pretty cool. It's kind of like 
any sort of store kiosk that you might need to   set up and it's a great example of the power of 
using distributed cloud with IBM Cloud Satellite.   So to get started, the first thing I need to do is 
log into the IBM Cloud console and navigate over   to IBM Cloud Satellite. Once I'm there, I'm going 
to go ahead and create a new location to represent   my desk. I'm going to go ahead and click the 
create location button, give this location a name,   and click create. Pretty straightforward. Now, 
once that location is up and running what I need   to do is bring some of my infrastructure on board. 
To do that I'm going to navigate over to the Hosts   section which is the concept that we use in IBM 
Cloud Satellite to represent the idea of systems   that are outside of IBM Cloud as the host. The 
first thing I need to do is click on Attach host.   I'm going to go ahead and download this post 
provisioning script and then once I've got that   in my hand I can go apply that post provisioning 
script to any system on the planet. That could be   in another cloud provider, it could be in your 
on-premises data center, or in this case I want   to get it bootstrapped onto these Intel NUCs that 
are sitting on my desk. Now to do that i've built   a custom image that will automatically carve up 
these systems into virtual machines and bootstrap   them with my post provisioning script. So all 
I need to do is get this onto that USB key,   insert it into my Intel NUCs, and go ahead 
and power them on. Now I'm going to go ahead   and go through that process for all three 
of these because I want a highly available   setup. So I can do maintenance by removing 
these later on, but that's pretty much it. Now that those systems are online. We can see 
they're all up here and ready for me to use in   my Satellite location and I'm going to go ahead 
and get one from each of those systems assigned   to be my Satellite Control Plane. This is really 
the heart of IBM Cloud Satellite that allows us   to build a secure way for us to go manage cloud 
services into your IBM Cloud Satellite location.   Now I've got these hosts assigned, 
my location is in a normal state,   and I'm ready to start using IBM Cloud Services. 
Let's go ahead and take a look at what that   experience is like. I'm going to navigate over to 
the IBM Cloud Catalog and I could choose any of   the IBM Cloud Satellite enabled services that we 
have available. Today we're going to demonstrate   Red Hat OpenShift on IBM Cloud, but it could be 
other services as well like our Postgres database   or potentially maybe some of our Cloud Pak for 
Data as a Service options as well. So let's go   ahead into the catalog to Red Hat OpenShift 
on IBM Cloud and we can see I still have my   traditional cloud service options where I can 
provision into IBM Cloud data centers like a VCP,   but I've also got the Satellite option available 
to me as well. So I'm going to go ahead and   choose Satellite. Choose my new location I 
created and go ahead and give that a name, and then create that OpenShift cluster. Now, I can navigate over to my OpenShift clusters 
in IBM Cloud and we can see I've got a number of   clusters in here, some of them are located in IBM 
Cloud, some of them are in Satellite locations,   but this one is on my desk. Let's go ahead and 
see what that looks like. I’m going to click   over to my cluster here and I can see I’ve got all 
the normal service options that I would have for   Red Hat OpenShift and IBM Cloud, I can update the 
version of this cluster to the latest version of   Red Hat OpenShift, or I can go in and perform 
maintenance on my worker nodes as well like   providing updates to them. I’m going to click 
over to my cluster here and I can see I’ve got   all the normal service options that I would have 
for Red Hat OpenShift and IBM Cloud, I can update   the version of this cluster to the latest version 
of Red Hat OpenShift, or I can go in and perform   maintenance on my worker nodes as well like 
providing updates to them. I get the standard user   experience with single sign-on from IBM Cloud into 
Red Hat OpenShift and all the usual tools that I   would find in in Red Hat OpenShift are available - 
I’ve got all my logging tools my monitoring tools   the registry, all of the development tools that 
are available to users of Red Hat OpenShift.  So, very powerful tool that we've got available to 
us here that allows us to really expand the reach   of IBM Cloud and the powerful Cloud services 
that we provide - in this case on my desk,   but remember, it could be on any infrastructure 
in the world running Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Thank you for watching. If you have questions, please drop us a line below. If you want to see more video like this in the future, please like and subscribe. 