Hi, I'm Nataraj Nagaratnam and I'm from IBM Cloud. Traditionally when you deploy an application you have the entire data center, the servers that you run - you're responsible for all of it. In the cloud model that's a shared responsibility between you and the cloud provider. In a shared responsibility model you need to rethink security on what your responsibility is and what  the cloud provider's responsibility is. Let's take platform-as-a-service (PaaS) as an example. When you look at PaaS, you're building applications, migrating data to the cloud and building applications running them on the cloud. So, you're responsible for securing the applications, the workload and the data while the cloud provider is responsible for managing the security of the platform. So that it's compliant, it's secured from the perspective of network, the platform on down in terms of managing the containers and the runtime and isolation, so that you have your own space within the platform. Whereas if you are adopting and migrating workloads to the cloud and you're using infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS), then the cloud provider manages hypervisor on down if you are using virtual servers or, if you are using bare metal, then you can completely control everything on up from the operating system, the virtual servers that you run, and the data you bring it on. So it's very important to understand
the adoption model whether you're consuming IaaS or PaaS, or if you're
consuming SaaS where the cloud provider manages all the applications and the
security offered and you worry about the data that you bring in and plan accordingly. So that's a very important thing because it's part of understanding your responsibility in ultimately managing the risk and compliance of the workloads of the data that you bring to cloud. Now let's talk about architecture. When you build applications and migrate
applications and modernize your apps - let's start with data. With all the risk that you deal with, and the kind of data matters. Is it confidential data, is it public data, or sensitive data that may deal with private information. Consider all those factors and make a secure design around what your data security architecture should be. Make sure you have data at rest encryption so that the data is always encrypted whether you use a
database as a service, object store as a service, or other ways to store data
like block storage. Encryption is for amateurs, and we think about key management for professionals. So having more control of your keys provide you the
ability in the context of shared responsibility model that you own your
data you have complete control of your data. So as you think about key
management make sure you have an approach to think about if you are
bringing confidential data you want to bring your own keys may be sensitive
data you want to keep your own keys. So that how much control of the keys you
have and the hardware security module in which the key processing the encryption
decryption operations happen more control you have more responsibility
that you can take on. So encryption at data at rest, data in motion, as it
comes from services to data stores or applications so that as you think about
data coming out of the way your requests and API requests coming all the way data
in motion. And in the new world we need to start thinking about when the
application is actually processing the data that is going to be data in its
memory. So you can actually start to protect data using hardware based
technologies where you can protect in-memory data as well. So that when it
is in use and in memory by the applications you can protect it. So take
a holistic approach to data protection at rest, in motion, in use with full
control of your keys. It can be bring your own keys, or even better push the
boundary with keep your own keys. The application that serves the data
it's not only about which application needs to have access make sure the data
access is on an only by need basis. Do not open up your data services to the
whole world, be it network access or everybody to access the data, make sure
you exactly know which applications need to access or which users need to access
the data to run your cloud applications. From an application viewpoint make sure
there are no vulnerabilities in your application so scan your applications, so
I have an App SEC application security approach so that you can do dynamic
scanning or static scanning of your application before you deploy it into
the production, and in the cloud-native environment you're deploying container
images so you can scan your images, you can scan it for vulnerabilities before
you deploy and set your policies so that you only have secured images in
production any time and if there is any vulnerability in the new world you don't
need to patch these systems you just spin up a new container and off you go.
So that's the beauty of a cloud-native approach that you have security built in
in every step. So at a container level and the applications that serves the
business logic you can start to protect it. Then when you look at the users
coming in you want to manage access in terms of who the user is and what from
there they are coming from. So identity you need to make sure who the user is
or which service it is based on the identity of those services or users so
that you can manage access control to your application or data and also from the
perspective of network access you want to make sure only authorized users can
get in and if there are intruders out there you can make sure you can set it
up so that they are prevented from accessing your application and your data
in the cloud, be it through Web Application Firewall-ing, network access control or denial-of-service distributed,
denial-of-service protection and have intelligence built into these network
protection as well. So both identity and network. In essence, you are protecting
your data, you need to manage access to your apps and the workload on the data
that you have deployed on the cloud. You need to have a continuous security
monitoring so that you know at any point whether you're compliant to your
policies, you can watch out for threats that you need to manage, having an
approach and set of tools to manage security and complaints posture is very
important. So gaining insights about your posture, compliance, and threats. So from
your deployment environment you can garner information, it can be security
events, audit logs, flow logs from network or system that can be fed in so that you
can figure out what your posture and complaints and threats are, and that is not only important for you to gain insight you need to have actionable intelligence
so that you can start to remediate. You may figure out there's a vulnerability, a
container image that you have deployed is vulnerable so you can re-spin the
container so you can remediate and spin up a new container. There may be a
particular access from a network that seems to be coming in from a suspicious
network IP address so we can block that. So the ability to gain visibility and
insights and having that insights and turn it into actionable intelligence and
remediate is very important. So let's talk about DevOps. DevOps is about
development and operations. Traditionally we think about okay, there's an
application team that is doing the design and architecture, who are building
code, and then you throw it over the wall for the enterprise security team to
secure it and manage it. That should be rethought, fundamentally it's not just
about Dev and Ops, but security need to be a forethought not an afterthought.
So it should become SecDevOps approach to the way you
build, manage, and run your applications. So you need to embed security into the
entire lifecycle, what we call shift left, not only you manage security but shift
left through the entire process you need to have a secure design, so as you plan
as you design and say what kind of data am I going to put what level of
classification what kind of applications am I building, is it container based, is
it a workload that I'm migrating, take that into account and what integrations
you need to do so that you can plan it and architect it. Then as you build it
embed security as part of that process. So you have security aware applications, for example you may want to encrypt data of your sensitive data, you
may want to encrypt the data from your applications before you even you store
into a data store. So secure build and you manage security as part of SecDevops as you have secure design and architecture you pass on that and build
secure applications and deploy and manage security in a continuous
fashion and then you have a closed loop so that whatever you find you may need
to remediate or rearchitect your application or implement certain things
as threats landscape evolve. Thanks for watching this video. If you want to see more videos like it please leave a comment below, "like", and subscribe. Thank you.