Many enterprises today are getting advantages 
out of moving workloads into the public cloud.   They're building cognitive applications, they're 
scaling them on demand, and they're improving the   speed of their development through as a service 
API-based consumption on the public cloud. But   the reality is many workloads have not moved to 
the public cloud yet many of those workloads are   from regulated industries, they have security 
and compliance requirements, or performance and   latency requirements, that make it challenging to 
physically move those applications into a public   cloud data center. And what many organizations 
really want is all of the agility benefits of   public cloud, but the flexibility to run those 
workloads wherever they need them: on-premises   in their existing data centers, in multiple public 
cloud providers around the world, or at the edge   of the network closer to the applications 
and data sources that they need to process.   Public cloud is evolving to satisfy this 
requirement with a new concept called   “Distributed Cloud”. So, the heart of IBM Cloud 
Satellite is the notion of IBM Cloud Services   managed anywhere. When you consume capabilities on 
the IBM Cloud today you have a catalog of over 130   services that you can use to build and run your 
applications - everything from infrastructure to   Kubernetes and OpenShift databases, DevOps tools, 
and frameworks for AI machine learning and IOT.   All of those services are available as APIs that 
you can provision on demand, and you can consume   and use to build your applications. With IBM 
Cloud Satellite, we're extending that catalog   of services and enabling it to be consumed 
in the exact same way, through the same APIs,   in locations outside of IBM Cloud regions. So, 
you can now consume an OpenShift cluster in your   data center, or AI machine learning framework in 
your factory. You can use those capabilities in a   consistent way wherever the application workload 
needs to run. You can also use software - things   like IBM Cloud Paks and open-source capabilities 
- and deploy them in a consistent way across   any environment. One of the advantages of this 
approach is that the public cloud becomes kind of   the central management, or control plane, for all 
of your distributed workloads. You have a single   console that you can log into with IBM Cloud 
that allows you to provision resources, provision   cloud services, configure them, provision your 
applications, and manage them in a consistent   way across this diverse set of environments.  You 
get a single way to do security. You also get,   of course, common observability - logging 
and monitoring, and dashboards and alerts,   that allow you to monitor the workloads that 
you're running in a consistent way across all   these environments.  We're also doing some work 
in Satellite to help you with inventory and change   management. So, part of the power of Satellite is 
this common control plane or single pane of glass   that allows you to manage your applications across 
a diverse set of environments. Now, how does this   work?  Kind of the key idea within Satellite that 
we're introducing is the notion of a location.   A location is a way to define, to IBM Cloud, a 
place outside of IBM Cloud where you want to be   able to deploy and consume cloud services. It 
is a collection of infrastructure that you own   that we're going to use on your behalf to run 
cloud services. That location is essentially   a collection of Linux hosts, of virtual machines 
or physical machines, that get arranged together   into a pool of resources, that get managed 
automatically by Satellite, and that get used,   by us, to provision services. So, when you, let's 
say, you want to create a Satellite location in   your data center, you can provision a set of Linux 
machines within that data center. You register   those Linux machines with IBM Cloud as a location, 
and once that collection is registered with IBM   Cloud Satellite, you now see that location kind of 
as like a custom region within your cloud account,   where you can now deploy cloud services. So, 
if you want to create a Postgres database,   define a DevOps tool chain, or create an 
OpenShift cluster - when you provision that   cluster through services in the cloud, that custom 
location you just defined in your data center   will be a location that you can select 
when you provision that resource.   And so, locations is a really simple concept where 
you're able to take any Linux infrastructure and   make it available as a place to run cloud 
services.  Now, one of the advantages of   this idea of a location is it really provides a 
tremendous flexibility. IBM Cloud Satellite is   built on top of Kubernetes and OpenShift as the 
common infrastructure abstraction that we use   to allow you to consume cloud services in any 
infrastructure. And by using OpenShift as that   abstraction layer, we can support a variety of 
infrastructures underneath a Satellite location.   You can bring your own custom infrastructure 
in your data center, physical or virtual   servers. You can use your account on 
another public cloud like amazon, or azure,   or google - and consume that infrastructure, 
and arrange it into a location that's used by   IBM Cloud for running cloud services.  Now, since 
those locations, those services and applications,   are managed by IBM Cloud, we, of course, 
need a connection back to the cloud to help   us manage those things - and that connection 
is provided by a component called “Satellite   link”. And the idea of Satellite link is to 
give you the transparent visibility to all the   data that's flowing back and forth between 
the cloud and that location, and to give you   control over what applications and resources are 
exposed in those locations. So, these two ideas,   of location and link, provide the fundamental new 
concepts that Satellite introduces to IBM Cloud   to give you the power of services anywhere. We're 
also going to provide some optimized solutions.   Fully integrated rack systems both from IBM and 
from partners, and as-a-service infrastructure   capabilities where we can run the entire stack 
for you from hardware through infrastructure,   and up into platform and SaaS applications. And 
so, you can consume infrastructure either with   what you have, you can build new environments, 
or you can run multi-cloud environments   across IBM Cloud and other public cloud providers. 
So, those are kind of the core ideas in Satellite:   locations and link allow us to extend our 
cloud catalog services to any location,   giving you the power of cloud, and the power of 
IBM Cloud, anywhere in the world that you need   it. All you need is some Linux infrastructure 
and IBM does the rest. Thanks a lot.