Hybrid cloud is one of the most common
architectural patterns out there, but it's generally actually the result
of companies that are unable to abandon an existing technology stack
in favor of the public cloud. But what if I told you you could get the best of
both worlds? The innovation and cutting edge technologies made
possible through public cloud providers, and at the same time having the
flexibility and freedom of running your assets where you choose to,
whether it's on-prem or edge. Today let's talk about distributed cloud and the key
benefits that it offers. Now I want to start with what a general
hybrid cloud architecture looks like. So, you're going to have
customers that are running things on on-prem environments,
maybe they're running things on public cloud environments
or even private clouds, or even in addition we might have edge
environments. Now managing all of these environments comes
with their own set of Ops teams, challenges, data locality, latency
concerns, basically all of them will require some
overhead to maintain. Distributed cloud comes in right at the
center. Essentially what you'll have is a public
cloud sitting right at the center that's able
to manage all of those other environments.
Essentially it extends the capabilities of a public cloud
to other capabilities. Now i think Gartner put it best when they said,
that in a report that they recently published, they said
that distributed cloud fixes what hybrid cloud
breaks. Now today I want to cover four major themes that generally correspond
with what distributed cloud aims to solve,
and these actually happen to line up with where hybrid cloud tends to fall
short. Now the first one that I want to start
with is consistency. Now as I go through the example today
I'm going to put on a number of different hats,
whether I'm Dev, Ops, or Security, and I want to start with an Ops Engineer
because an Ops Engineer will generally have to be kind of
interfacing with a distributed cloud environment,
and that's where they will generally start. So, as an Ops Engineer,
let's say that one of the first things that I want to do
is work with a cloud environment. So what Ii want to do is go to a public
cloud and in that environment let's say that I
want to create a Kubernetes, or even an OpenShift
cluster. So, basically a way to manage
and orchestrate cloud-based applications. Now in this process of creating an
OpenShift cluster I'm probably given an option at one
point to choose where do I want this cluster to live.
So here's where I'm given a few choices. So, maybe i want to do it in a public
cloud location. So, let's say for example somewhere like
Dallas or London, but
through a distributed cloud I can register with the public cloud
other locations. So maybe somewhere like an on-prem or edge location.
So, let's say I've got an on-prem location in Bangalore, or an edge location
in Morocco. So basically what we've got here,
is whether it's public, on-prem, or edge locations,
we can choose one of those capabilities in,
directly in my public cloud UI and dashboard.
That's what a distributed cloud will generally offer.
So, through this process I'm now able to deploy
OpenShift container platform clusters in three different regions. Let's say,
so we've got three different OCD clusters. We'll say one of them is in
public. We'll say one of them is in edge. And we'll say the last one is on-prem.
Okay. So, we've got that kind of situated from an Ops Engineering perspective
I'm able to create and manage clusters across the board
whether they're in any of these general hybrid cloud style
environments. Now as an Ops Engineer that might be good for day one, but for day
two I need additional capabilities. Let's say
that I want to do something like scaling up and down. Well that's one of
the key advantages of a cloud, is the elasticity. So, let's say I can
scale up and down. In addition, let's say I want my clusters
to be able to network and interface with one another, basically communicate
my applications communicating across the board. So, maybe i want to take advantage
of a service mesh capability, that's something a distributed cloud can
offer. So, taking a look at that we can start doing
some service meshing capabilities. Okay. So, now that we've got that
groundwork laid out, we've covered how basically for an Ops Engineer I have a
consistent experience for deploying clusters in any
of these locations, you have consistency. Next up,
let's talk about DevOps. So, we've covered a bit of DevOps already,
so with the Ops perspective of deploying and managing clusters,
but for developers who want to utilize capabilities generally available in
public clouds, well I have a different angle of
approach here. So, putting on my hat as a Dev.
Now let's say one of the first things that I want to do here
is create a service, right. So generally with OCP most DevOps
capabilities are handled it's a really good platform for being able to work
with containers and kind of deploying apps, but let's say
I want to take advantage of a service that cloud providers generally provide.
So, this would be something like a database.
So I want to create a DB. So, I'm in my cloud provider,
I'm in the dashboard, and I want to create a database
and I'm given a similar option. I'm asked where do you want to create it? And some
given options like before, data centers or locations, not just
public cloud but also on-prem or edge, and I can choose to deploy those
high-value capabilities, you know so I can decide to deploy a
database in my public cloud. Well this is nothing special I've been
able to do that. Or I should be able to deploy a database,
in addition into edge environments. So that's taken care of as well.
So now that we've gotten that piece kind of squared away,
we've kind of talked about how distributed cloud enables
DevOps to be more efficient. One other thing I want to use this example for
here is innovation, and this is for high
value services. So, let's say I want to do AI or machine
learning capabilities, something that a public cloud will
generally offer. So, you know, let's say I have some AI or ML
capabilities that I want to deploy. Well same as before,
I can take those capabilities and deploy them to any of these
environments. So with distributed cloud you're able to innovate
with capabilities generally only available in public cloud,
in environments outside of the public cloud. It's one of the key capabilities.
The last one I want to talk about today is governance. Now governance is a key requirement for
pretty much all companies, but especially you know financial institutions, or
health or insurance companies, basically concerns like data regulations,
compliance, data locality. How can a Security Admin effectively and
with a single control plane manage policies across the board? Well
time to put on my last hat here. Let's say that I'm a Security Admin
and I've created a network policy. So, this network policy, let's say that it
handles things like RBAC, or network policies across the board, or
security policies, and I want to deploy them to clusters
everywhere in my business, not just in the cloud, but also on-prem
and edge. Well, with the distributed cloud you can
do exactly that. By taking advantage of the capabilities
made available I can deploy these policies
across the board to any of these environments. Now this is a simple
example, but it goes to show you how distributed
cloud is tackling problems that hybrid cloud generally runs into.
Thanks for joining me for this quick overview of distributed cloud.
If you've enjoyed this video and you want to see more like this in the future
be sure to drop a like or a comment below.
To see what IBM is doing in the distributed cloud space be sure to check
out IBM Cloud Satellite. Thank you for watching.