I'm going to attempt to classify all of artificial 
intelligence or AI into seven types. And that's   a tall order. But these seven types of AI 
can largely be understood by examining two   encompassing categories. There's AI capabilities, 
and there's AI functionalities. So let's start   with AI capabilities, and there are three. The 
first of which is known as artificial narrow AI,   which also goes by the rather unflattering name of 
"weak AI". Now, on its face, that doesn't sound like   a very interesting capability to start us off. 
But actually, narrow AI is the only type of AI   that exists today--it's all we currently have. Any 
other form of AI is theoretical. So we can think   of this as realized AI--that's the artificial 
intelligence we have today. And theoretical AI,   which is the artificial intelligence we may have 
in the future. And now narrow AI can be trained   to perform a narrow task, which, to be fair 
to narrow AI, might be something that a human   could not do as well as the AI can. But it can't 
perform outside of its defined task. It does need   us humans still to train it. So if narrow AI 
represents all AI capabilities we have today,   well, what else is there? Well, a favorite of 
memes, science fiction, and betting markets is   artificial general intelligence, also known as 
AGI. And also known as "strong AI". To be clear,   AGI is currently nothing more than a theoretical 
concept. But here's the idea: AGI can use previous   learnings and skills to accomplish new tasks 
in a different context, without the need for   us human beings to train the underlying models. 
If AGI wants to learn how to perform a new task,   it will figure it out by itself. Which 
sounds... disconcerting. But, but look,   we haven't even talked about the third type of AI 
capability yet. And that's artificial "super AI". If   ever realized, super AI would think, reason, 
learn, make judgments and possess cognitive   abilities that surpass those of human beings. 
The application's [possessing] super AI capabilities   would have evolved beyond the point of catering 
to humans sentiments and experiences, and would be   able to feel emotions and have needs and possess 
beliefs and desires of their own. Yeah. So let's   park that cheery thought for now, and consider 
the four types of AI based on functionalities.   And we're back in the real world of realized 
AI here--at least initially. So we can think   of narrow AI as having two fundamental functions. 
One of those is reactive machine AI. Now reactive   machine AI are systems designed to perform a very 
specific specialized task. Reactive AI stems from   statistical math, and it can analyze vast amounts 
of data to produce a seemingly intelligent output.   We've had reactive AI for quite a long time. Back 
in the late 1990s, IBM's chess playing supercomputer   Deep Blue beat chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov by 
analyzing the pieces on the board and predicting   the probable outcomes of each move. That's a 
specialized task with a lot of available data   to create insights. The hallmark of reactive AI. 
We can think of other narrow AI functionalities   really as being classified as "limited memory 
AI". Now this form of AI can recall past events   and outcomes and monitor specific objects or 
situations over time. It can use past and present   moment data to decide on a course of action most 
likely to help achieve a desired outcome. And as   it's trained on more data over time, limited 
memory AI can improve in performance. Think of   your favorite generative AI chatbot, which relies 
on limited memory AI capabilities to predict the   next word or the next phrase or the next visual 
element within the context it's generating. Okay,   so what about our two theoretical AI capabilities? 
Well, if we look at AGI, we have to think about   "theory of mind AI". Now, this would understand 
the thoughts and emotions of other entities,   specifically us, so it could infer human motives 
and reasoning and personalize its interactions   with individuals based on their unique emotional 
needs and intentions. And actually, emotion AI   is a theory of mind AI currently in development. 
AI researchers hope it will have the ability to   analyze voices, images and other kinds of data 
to understand and respond to human feelings.   Finally! An AI that really understands me. And 
then finally, under super AI, we have "self-aware   AI". Winning my personal award for the scariest AI 
of all, it would have the ability to understand   its own internal conditions and traits, leading to 
its own set of emotions, needs and beliefs. Look,   we've covered seven types of AI, and only three 
of them actually exist today! There is still so   much to be learned and discovered. But as 
those advancements happen, at least here we   have a taxonomy of AI types that will tell 
us how far along we are on our AI journey.