Hi, there, my name is Bradley Knapp, and I'm with IBM Cloud. And the question that I want to answer for you guys today is what is a LAMP Stack? So we've gotten some questions and comments in the past. We've had people approach us and they say, Hey, I hear this referenced all the time. I have absolutely no idea what a LAMP stack is. This is not something I'm familiar with. And so LAMP is an acronym. It stands for Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP, and it is the stack of software that, at its most fundamental, makes the internet run. And I know that seems kind of bizarre and kind of an outlandish claim, but I can assure you that the internet exists in the form that we use it today in the form that we consume it today because of the LAMP Stack. And so first, I want to go through like, what are those components? And then we're going to talk about how they work. So if we think about running a website right in order to run a website, you have to have some sort of a server now. That server. Could be a physical server. It could be a virtual server. It could be in a data center. It could be running in cloud. It could be in a Colo facility. It could be just a laptop that's plugged into your room. But you have to have some sort of a computer hardware to run that website. You have to have something that is turned on and has electricity network access. And then on top of that hardware, you have the floor LAMP components, right? The first one that we're going to talk about here. Is our Linux? Linux is the free, open source software that is an operating system. It's community supported, it's community developed, and Linux is that operating system that forms most of the internet. It is the underlying operating system of the internet writ large, and Linux comes in lots of different flavors, right? You've got pure Linux, if you will. So the pure Linux kernel, you have Ubuntu from Canonical, you have Red Hat, you have SUSE, you have CentOS, you have Mint. All different flavors, but all using the same underlying kernel or close enough that it really doesn't matter. But again, it's free. It's freely distributed. Anybody can go download it, compile it, install it and get it running. That's the URL. All right. Our next piece in our lamp stack is our aye aye is Apache. Apache, again, free, open source software from the Apache Foundation. Apache is the web server layer, so Apache software that you install on your Linux operating system onto the server and the point of Apache is to be able to understand all of those incoming network requests. What do they mean and what do I send back when I'm done? So Apache is the actual web server itself if you want to think about the web server being its own standalone software. And then the next piece, that's our M, L M and are M is for MySQL. MySQL is a free, open source, SQL Structured Query Language Database. Again, free, open source community developed, community supported so anybody can go down, install it or download it, compile it, install it and run it. And the idea behind MySQL is it is the database layer for your LAMP stack. It's the database for your website. Well, what is the database? A database has tables in it. Inside the tables. We store data. And so if you think about going to a website where you're going to log in, right, that website prompts you for credentials. What's your username and your password? Before you could log into it, you had to register for it. You had to give it your name, your address, your telephone number, your email address, so on and so forth. All of that data that you input goes into this database. And so when you log in, it's going to go and it's going to check against the database to say, Hey, does this user name match? Does this password match? So that's the database. That's where all of the data that is dynamic is housed. And then our fourth, are P, and this goes down here at the bottom. We've got all of our components. How do we write the site? Well, we need a language. And that's what PHP is for. PHP Is the most commonly used language in running websites, building websites. PHP is again, it is free, it is community written. It is community supported. Anybody can download it. Anybody can compile it. And anybody can install. It is far and away the most common language used for scripting or writing websites. And so that's a description. These are the components of the LAMP stack. Let's talk about how do they work? And so let's imagine a guy. This guy is smiling, we'll give him a little smile. He's got a laptop, right, so his laptop? He wants to get on to it, and he wants to go to your website, and so he's going to send a request down here to your server that's running. Way up. And he's going to say, Hey, please send me your front page. And so that request that's going to come in. Let me let's do our L., A., M. P. here. So that request that's going to come in the request is going to be, Hey, please send this to me. So it's going to come in. It's going to hit the Apache and say, Hey, this guy wants the website. Apache is going to say, All right, well, we need to send it out. So let me run the code to the VP to send HTML back so that it knows what to display. Let me access that m the MySQL database to say, Hey, what data are we going to send back? Is there anything in the database we're going to send or is it all static or hard coded? And it's going to talk to the URL to the Linux and say, Hey, operating system, this incoming request. It's good to go, and we're going to send this data back to him. We're going to send back the code, we're going to send back the data and we're going to send it back in this web compliant standard method. And so it is then going to transmit those via packets back to our guy with our laptop, and he's going to be able to view the website. Everything that he clicks on is going to generate a new series of communications back and forth between his laptop and the server running the lamp stack to serve up all of the images to serve up the text, to serve up the prompts. Anything that moves. Anything that's intelligent, the underlying components are exactly the same. And so you'll see other videos on this channel that talk about other kinds of web servers. LAMP is far and away. The longest serving it is the most popular. It's the one that's been around the longest, and it really doesn't matter what web framework you're going to use. At the end of the day, the underlying architecture depends on the exact same things that we scripted out 15 years ago when the LAMP Stack was originally developed. And so hopefully that's been good information for you. As always, if you have any questions, please feel free to put them into the comments. I do actually try and come in and answer them somebody else from IBM be able to answer them if you want to get really in-depth. Please reach out to your IBM team and we'll see what we can do to help you out. Thank you so much for stopping by the channel today. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to share them with us below. If you enjoyed this video and you would like to see more like it in the future, please do like the video and subscribe to us so that will know to keep creating for you.