Val, welcome here. Thank you for bringing your expertise in the area of financial services to the topic of  edge computing. So, let's just start with a simple question. What does edge computing mean to the financial services industry? So, if we think about, just focusing on the
banking industry for a moment, the brick and mortar. And then the move into mobile which was really based on the premise of digital services for consumers anywhere they are. With edge computing, we're able to go that next step, right? Of engagement with consumers anywhere, anytime, right? Beyond mobile, because there are some natural limitations to mobile. So really, edge computing is creating the
foundation on which we can capture data and bring AI analytics closer to where that data is being produced. All the things that typically are assisted
with the banking industry, all of that can now be analyzed and performed in my context, in my environment, close to where I am. Right so we have ATMs and the ATM environment, currently today, there are cameras in the environment that are watching what happens. You want to make sure it's a safe environment, but also in this situation where there is fraud and they have the data collected to
be able to look at the log files and see what happens. That's all post event, though. So, what we can do now is watch with those cameras what is happening and in real time identify that we have a risk, either to human safety or to fraudulent behavior and with that alert or send off a notice to the police, lock the door. You define your action based on what's most appropriate in that scenario. With edge computing and, sort of transforming the ATM from being a fixed function to being much more software defined, it allows us to now start to introduce changes at the ATM. I can certainly reduce the cost of management because I'm not having to send individuals out to each of these ATMs to update them by sticking, a disc or a USB stick into each one of those ATMs. I can do that remotely. So, we've talked a lot about retail banking
and of course ATMs. What other aspects of the financial services industry can gain benefit from edge computing? Love that question. Well, so within financial markets for example, in trading, decisions have to be made so rapidly in an environment... and the latency, network bandwidth and sending things to the cloud. It’s just prohibitive. So, the ability to bring those analytics right down to the edge where the data is created at the network and then alert for decision
making in milliseconds can be a huge differentiator in gains. And I think that's what's really exciting. Just helping people recognize performance toward a business outcome or goal is all driven by how we deliver insights and prescriptions in the most engaging way possible. Yeah, absolutely. Well, Val, thank you so much for being here today. Thank you for your insight, your expertise,
your knowledge and sharing that with us. I appreciate it. Thank you, Rob. I've enjoyed this.