Data security is everybody's business. 
There are a number of security solutions   out there. There are a number of security 
products driving these security solutions.   And certainly, the security 
teams are always inundated with   too many alerts, too many products, 
and too many solutions to keep up with.  Data security is a constantly evolving and 
a moving target. So when we talk about the   challenges of data security, it's all about having 
an understanding of what data an organization has,   understand what are some of the compliance 
mandates the organization needs to comply with.   And more importantly, be able to get to a 
more proactive state where organizations are   managing and remediating security threats as they 
arise. And that's really where Zero Trust light   frameworks come into picture. Zero Trust ensures 
that you are verifying everything and not really   banking on trusting anything without verification.
Privacy and data security and governance are   interrelated. They are two phases 
of the same coin in the sense that   privacy is something that you could drive with 
having a robust data governance process and having   a very solid framework to enforce data governance 
from a security point of view. And that's really   where data security solutions come in to play.
IBM believes the current state of data security   can be improved. We believe the market from here 
goes towards more of an open and interconnected   space where security solutions could talk to 
each other and essentially enable security   orchestration and response in a more congenial and 
more homogenous way. And IBM Security solutions   are built using some of the security first 
principles like separation of duties, being   able to deliver data-centric security controls 
and ultimately drive all this in a way that is   enabling security teams to manage data security 
threats and prioritize actions and remediation.  What that provides is the ability 
for organizations to have their teams   across the board from compliance to privacy, 
from risk management to applications,   infrastructure to operations, all come together 
to address business challenges and particularly   data security threats and events in a more 
collaborative way. My name is Rajesh Venkatasubbu,   product manager at IBM Security, and responsible 
for data security and guardian data protection.