What if you could release a feature to different 
groups of users without deployment? Is there a way   to effectively test features in production, and 
immediately roll them back if needed? Hi, my name   is Dilan Orrino with IBM Cloud. I'll be answering 
those questions by discussing feature flags,   or sometimes referred to as feature toggle, 
or switches. Feature flags are conditions   that encompass feature code that allow you to 
flip them on and off at will. Okay, let's use   an example. Let's say we've got an ice cream shop 
franchise that's looking to expand to a new city   and we've got a banner that we want to display 
on our website. We'll call this open banner. We only want to display this banner to users that 
are nearby our new ice cream shop we can do this   by using feature flags. There's a 
couple benefits to using feature flags.   Number one is we can actually turn 
these on or off without deployment. Number two is we can actually 
test directly in production. And number three we can segment our 
users based on different attributes. Okay, there's a couple ways you can do this 
one way is by using properties in JSON files   or config maps. There's a better way however 
by using a feature flag service. There's a   couple benefits to using a feature flag service. 
Number one is you can have essentially managed place for your features, or excuse me your feature 
flags. Number two is you can turn these on and off   without modifying your properties in your future, in your 
apps or web pages. And number three is you   get audit and usage data. It's harder to get 
the audit and usage data by using JSON files. Okay, so now let's go back to our 
example we've got our open banner   feature and now let's wrap it 
with some feature flag code.   And so here's an example, kind of pseudo 
code, that you can use if store open is enabled. Then we're going to show open banner   so this pseudocode represents our feature code 
and the flag that potentially could encompass it.   Now let's actually put this in production 
and make it show showcase to some users. So   now that we've got our feature in production 
it's not usable to any users right now   this is an idea typically displayed with feature 
flags called dark launch. Dark launch is when a   feature is in production but not visible to any 
or all users or any or some users, excuse me. Now we want to introduce the idea of segments.   So we've already said that we only want 
a certain number of people to view this,   people who are nearby our new shop. This will be 
our segment A, and a segment is simply users or   groups of users that have attributes tied to them. 
So this first one might have current location, and zip code. Attributes, this allows users who 
are either currently in the location   or have already stipulated that they live nearby 
to view this feature, but before we do that   we want to test the feature out on our 
own employees. So we would have segment B   of our testers because we want them to be our 
employees the attribute might be email ID. Now we can effectively test our feature 
in production by flipping this toggle on.   So now this feature is on for our testers, 
and say maybe something went wrong so we're   actually going to flip it off fix it, and 
then we'll turn it back on for segment B   once we're satisfied that everything is 
working well. Then we can flip this on   for our segment A now all this is done without 
a deployment because our feature is already in   production. All we're doing is making it 
visible or not visible to certain users   once it is in production. We can actually 
add a little bit of automation to this   with our testers, we did it manually, we flipped 
it on and off manually, but with feature flags we   can actually add a time element. So let's say we 
only want this to be viewable for three weeks, two   weeks before grand opening, one week after grand 
opening of our new shop. This will be flipped on   and then automatically turned off or not visible 
for this segment of users after three weeks.   Okay, so now we're getting really good at using 
feature flags so our feature flags are potentially   starting to stack up we might have a couple apps 
and a couple websites with a couple different   types of features that are flagged. So we've got 
maybe app one here, app two, and say a web page. With a feature flagging service we can actually 
group these in collections so that we're a little   bit more organized with which feature flags are 
tied to, which apps are web pages. So now today   we've learned about returning feature flags on 
and off without deployment testing directly in   production, and then segmenting those features 
based on the user attributes. Thank you for   watching. If you have questions, please drop us 
a line below. If you want to see more videos like   this in the future, please like and subscribe. 
And don't forget, you can grow your skills and   earn badges with IBM CloudLabs, which are free 
browser-based interactive kubernetes labs.