Hey, what's up, everyone? My 
name is Luv Aggarwal and I'm   a Data Platform Solution Engineer for IBM.  
 
  Data warehouses. Their prevalence across 
enterprises has grown significantly   over the past 20+ years. But with 
multiple modern advancements,   the numerous options out there 
are now much more complex.  
 
  So, let's talk about what an enterprise data 
warehouse, or "EDW", is. So, first and foremost,   there's often confusion between "data lakes" 
and "data warehouses" and even "data marts".   So, I like to think of a data warehouse as being 
more purpose-specific than a data lake. So,   while a data lake is a great place to dump all 
sorts of raw, structured and unstructured data   in a quick way to clean and organize later, a 
data warehouse, on the other hand, is a large   collection of organized and clean business data, 
ready to help an organization make decisions.   And a data mart is like a subset of a 
data warehouse that's more specific to a   particular business domain. So, for example, 
you could have a finance data mart.  
 
  But for today, let's focus on the data warehouse.   So, we'll get rid of data lakes and data marts, 
and we'll make this a little bit bigger.  
 
  But for today, we'll focus on the data warehouse. 
So, let's get rid of data lakes and data marts,   and make our data warehouse 
a little bit bigger.  
 
  So, the data warehouse serves as the single source 
of truth for an organization across multiple   knowledge domains. And data in the warehouse 
comes from multiple different source systems.   And is transformed from raw 
data to high quality data,   optimized for analytics via various different 
ETL, or "Extract, Transform and Load" tools.  
 
  So, as I mentioned, data that's 
in our source systems can be in   different types. It could be transactional 
systems, it can be relational databases,   and they can cover a wide 
variety of business domains.  
 
  So, the data could cover things like customer 
data from our CRMs. We could have sales data.   We could have data from our ERP systems. 
We could even have supply chain data.   And the list goes on and on. Right.  
 
  So, once data has been cleaned, transformed and   loaded into our data warehouse, it's 
now ready for us to expose to our users,   who can then start to take it and do analytics 
and machine learning on these data sets.  
 
  So, who are our users? Our users can be folks 
like business analysts. We can have data   scientists. We could even have data engineers. And 
these folks can now start leveraging these data   sets, either using the built-in analytics tools in 
the data warehouse or using a variety of different   business intelligence or predictive 
analytics and machine learning platforms.  
 
  OK, so now that we know what an 
enterprise data warehouse is,   let's talk about the different ways 
in which it can be implemented.   So, three common ways in which a 
data warehouse can be deployed.  
 
  The first way is on-premises. Now, 
a couple different ways in which an   on-prem data warehouse can be configured, 
we could have our data warehouse running on   commodity hardware. Now, this could be set up 
and structured using either MPP, or "Massively   Parallel Processing", architecture where we just 
add more compute nodes as our workload grows,   or using SMP, or "Symmetric Multi-Processing", 
architecture where, typically, we have a   tightly coupled, multi-CPU system that shares 
resources from one common operating system.  
 
  Now, the other way is through a 
purpose-built appliance format.   Now, this is typically an integrated 
stack of CPU, memory storage software,   all purpose-built and optimized for a data 
warehouse workload from a single vendor.  
 
  So, what are some of the benefits 
of having an on-prem data warehouse?   Well, first you get to maintain complete 
control over the entire tech stack, right?   Second, you can leverage your local network 
speeds and perhaps avoid some bandwidth challenges   typically associated with the cloud. You can also 
leverage high availability, and we can maintain   strict governance and regulatory compliance, but 
on the other hand, an on-prem data warehouse does   come with an upfront investment and the 
need for ongoing support and maintenance. Now, the other way in which a 
data warehouse can be deployed   is through a cloud-based data warehouse, 
where our data warehouse is delivered as   a managed to SaaS offering via the 
multiple public cloud providers.  
 
  So, moving data warehouses to the cloud is 
the next frontier for a lot of enterprises   and for valid reasons. Some of the benefits 
include being able to free up resources   to focus on other high value analytics tasks, 
right, instead of just managing systems.  
 
  Another benefit can also be the 
ability to scale easily. Right,   because we don't have to go 
out and procure new hardware   and we get to leverage automatic upgrades. Right. 
Now, on the other hand, oftentimes a cloud-based   data warehouse can take a performance hit due to 
how it's fine tuned for that specific workload,   and there can be some unanticipated high costs 
due to how cloud data warehouse is scaled.  
 
  OK, the third option is actually a hybrid 
approach. So, this takes the best of on-prem   and cloud and brings them together. And a lot 
of enterprises choose to run both their on-prem   and cloud data warehouses in conjunction. And this 
can be done for a couple of different reasons.  
 
  So, one benefit can be that this allows us to 
explore new use-cases. Right. So as an enterprise,   we may have certain data sources that 
were born in the cloud. So, it can be   beneficial to start leveraging a cloud data 
warehouse for analytics against those use-cases   while still maintaining their mission 
critical workloads on-prem.  
 
  Another benefit can be for a disaster 
recovery and backup scenario.   This is where we would use both our environments 
in conjunction for DR and backup reasons.  
 
  So, if we take a step back, we can see that 
we've barely started to scratch the surface of   enterprise data warehouses and how they fit into 
an overall enterprise architecture. But I hope   this video has given us a good idea of how data 
warehouses fit in and what they're used for. Thank   you. If you have any questions, please drop us a 
line below. If you want to see more videos like   this in the future, please like and subscribe. And 
don't forget, if you want to learn more about any   of the IBM data solutions we've discussed today, 
please feel free to check out the link below.