Malcolm Gladwell: Hello, hello. Welcome to Smart 
Talks with IBM, a podcast from Pushkin Industries, iHeartRadio and IBM. I’m Malcolm Gladwell.
This season, we’re continuing our conversations   with New Creators— visionaries who are creatively 
applying technology in business to drive change,   but with a focus on the transformative power 
of artificial intelligence and what it means   to leverage AI as a game-changing 
multiplier for your business.  Today’s episode highlights the power 
of collaboration. IBM has long been a   supporter of the “better together” mindset 
and embraces partnerships. They have been   working together with Salesforce for more than 
two decades, but have recently launched a new   collaborative effort surrounding generative AI.
Pushkin’s very own Jacob Goldstein sat down   with Matt Candy and Susan Emerson. Matt is the 
global managing partner of generative AI at IBM   Consulting, helping clients and partners around 
the world embrace this new era of technology.   And Susan is a Senior Vice president for 
Salesforce dedicated to AI, analytics and data.  They discussed the historic collaboration 
between the two tech giants, explored the   opportunity AI presents for customer service, 
and walked through how businesses can use   generative AI to interface with clients.
Okay, let’s get to the conversation.  Jacob: Thank you, guys, for coming this 
morning. So I'm interested in how you both   came to generative AI—or maybe it sort of came 
to you in the way it sort of came to all of us.  But how did you arrive at 
working on generative AI?  Susan: As part of my remit at Salesforce over 
the years, I've brought a lot of analytics and   data and machine-learning products to life 
under the Einstein brand at Salesforce. So   as we pivoted Salesforce into taking 
advantage of the generative-AI moment,   it was natural that I became part of the advance 
team leveraging generative AI. And it's—it's   become interesting. What I see as I speak with 
customers—the moment that everyone is facing   in terms of how they incorporate generative AI 
into their businesses, their workforces and their   technical stacks—it's actually opening up a lot 
of doors to the utility of analytics, data and AI.  So it's been this big pull-through in terms 
of incorporating not just generative AI,   but a larger conversation around how we 
become all better using data in our day jobs.  Jacob: So that's a great frame for sort of what's 
going on at Salesforce with generative AI. Matt,   tell us a little bit about, you know, how that 
fits with the way IBM is approaching the space.  Matt: So I guess—probably three sides to that 
question. And so there's the technology side to   it. So IBM has a technology organization. And 
so, you know, we are building, and have been   over many years—decades, in fact—IBM has been 
working in this space, a generative-AI stack,   that allows organizations to adopt generative-AI 
technology, uh, aimed at enterprise and   business use within their organizations.
So then within the consulting business,   you know, we have 160,000 people who work every 
day with clients across every industry—regulated   industries, government organizations. And so this, 
you know, is a really important technology that   those companies are going to be using to drive the 
next level of transformation in their enterprises’   processes, and the types of experiences they 
build for their customers. And so, you know,   we work extensively with partners—uh, 
technology such as Salesforce, AWS,   Microsoft, as well as our own technology.
And then finally, I guess, the third angle   is the work that we've got to do to reinvent the 
business of consulting. And so if I think about,   you know, consulting and systems
integration, you know, ultimately   we are knowledge workers, right? And so 
from an industry perspective, I think,   you know, our industry is—same as many others—is 
gonna, is gonna go—undergo a level of disruption   caused by this technology, but therefore 
that will also create a huge opportunity   for us as well. So those three aspects, Jacob. Jacob: Great. So, so that's the point of view sort of from your companies in your work. I'm curious to talk for a moment about AI from the point of   view of consumers and employees kind of out in 
the world today. So just to start with consumers:   when I'm just out as a person, as a consumer 
in the world, how am I experiencing AI today?  Matt: I'll give you a great little use case, 
actually. I was on holiday, uh, three weeks ago,   in Tenerife in Spain. And, uh, I was trying to 
find somewhere to park the car with the family   for dinner that evening. And, uh, I found, 
I found this area, next to this, uh, kind of   shopping center. And there was this sign there.
And, uh, I couldn't quite work out if it was   saying I could park there or not. And so I took a 
photo of the sign and I uploaded it to an AI tool,   and I said, “What does this mean?” And it 
basically explained to me what the sign   was saying, and basically told me that 
I shouldn't be parking there. And so I   drove on and I found some—somewhere else to park.
But yeah, that, that allowed me, in under sixty   seconds to probably avoid a hundred- euro fine by 
parking the car there. So—just a simple example,   but I think the ability that these tools have to 
take friction out of our daily lives, you know,   and to be able to make, just, things that we do in 
our everyday life simple and more frictionless—um,   you know, that's how I look at, how “Matt 
the consumer” is going to benefit from   some of this type of technology. Susan: And from my perspective, it's also a travel story. I spend a lot of time on 
the road for, for work, but recently had to send   my sister and her family to a destination they'd 
never been to for a wedding. And, it was really   quick and easy to use some generative tools to 
come up with a whole plan for them, because they   love to hike and to be outdoors and to hike in 
areas that aren't overly crowded with, um, people.  And so gen AI very quickly gave me an itinerary 
of a bunch of terrific hikes for them, uh,   for a destination. So, things like that. Jacob: Great, and then what about the, the effect of AI and of automation more generally on, on employees, on the workforce?  Susan: Well, there's so many dimensions to take 
that from. Generative AI really can up-level a   workforce in all sorts of ways by providing these 
consistent ways to engage with technology with   these natural-language experiences. So I think 
it changes everything from—it finds us content,   it generates us content, it makes it easier to 
work with our systems of engagement and operation.  And for many organizations, uh, it's, 
uh, it can be a, a lifting factor in   terms of bringing a more consistent workforce 
experience, because these tools can just be   ever present in our systems of, of work. Matt: I'll give you a little example. Here in IBM, we have something called Ask HR. And so that's our conversational AI interface   that we use to interact with HR services. And 
94 percent of every employee interaction now   happens without human intervention, through that 
interface. But you would never know that. And so   if I think about, you know, our HR processes, you 
know, we have this amazing conversational- based,   uh, AI that we use for all of our HR 
interactions, and we surface that through   Slack. And so Slack becomes the front door for 
how we access, a lot of these different enterprise   processes and capabilities and how we surface AI.
In fact, I'm taking a flight shortly back to the   UK and our Ask HR boss is reminding me that it's 
raining in the UK and I should take an umbrella.  Susan: Isn’t it always, like, raining in England?
Matt: Yeah, I don't think there's any AI needed   for that. I think that's just a hard-coded
“If England, then take umbrella.” That's right.  Susan: That’s just a rule. 
That's just a rule, right?  Matt: Right, and you're able to converse, and, you 
know, “I need to book a holiday.” “I need to move   somebody between managers.” “I need to figure 
out the policy on this.” And the AI basically   navigates across the different systems to 
be able to help get that information—to   summarize it back, to be able to carry out the 
transactions that I need to be carried out.  And it just, just removes all of that complexity 
and makes it easier to get things done.  Jacob: Uh, when you are working with 
companies to implement generative AI now,   what do you find tends to be their primary focus?
Susan: I mean, I speak with a lot of customers   each week, and for the last several months, 
most organizations have just been reorienting   themselves in terms of “Where are we in this 
moment? What is this technology capable of?   What are the risks and governance and frameworks 
that I need to establish in order to engage and   talk to everyone—talk to my vendors, talk to 
my cloud providers, talk to my consultants,   talk to academics, and generally get your sea legs 
under them?” And the—sort of the unstructured,   hands-on-keyboards fiddling which technology seems 
to be moving towards. “Let's get some points on   the board. Let's turn this stuff on and go.” So 
that's what I've been seeing in terms of, uh, you   know, the work within the Salesforce ecosystem. 
Matt, you've got a larger aperture as well.  Uh, what, uh, what are you seeing? Matt: Yeah, so I, I—I definitely agree. I think, you know, there's been lots of getting sea legs, experimentation, just trying to build knowledge,   being able to try and build almost a, uh, 
you know, internal organizational point   of view and reference framework. You know, 
I've seen lots of what I would refer to as   “random acts of AI,” you know, in, in, in 
terms of, uh, in terms of experimentation,   but I think, I think people—now looking into 2024 
and—this is all about, now, adoption and scaling.  What's become really clear is organizations 
have started to realize: this is going to be   a very multimodal world that they're 
going to live in. There is no one AI   that is the answer for their organization.
And so there's—they're going to have lots of   different generative-AI models and technologies 
that are going to sit in the organization,   servicing different use cases, different 
domain areas, different products and   services. And so therefore having to figure 
out how they're going to navigate and manage   this kind of open world that they're going 
to be sitting in, and the decisions that   they're going to have to make around that.
I think the second thing that I've seen,—that   people are now becoming very clear that 
this needs to be what I would refer to as   “use-case led and outcome focused.” and so
really needing to start with thinking about   the business outcome and the problem 
that, you know, we're trying to solve,   and therefore “How do I use generative AI as 
part of the mechanism to solve that problem?”  And I think, you know, what, what Susan and the 
Salesforce team do is an amazing example of that.   You know, they've got this incredible platform 
and engine that allows, you know, companies to   transform their sales and service processes and 
to be able to put data in the hands of users,   to be able to make better decisions, et cetera.
And so now by weaving generative AI into that   platform, we're going to be able to make those 
processes and workflows even more efficient,   right? So it's generative AI plus all of these 
other amazing things that are there, but it will   be led through business outcomes and it will 
be led through the use case and the business   problem or workflow that we're trying to improve.
And then I think the third thing is shifting from   this experimentation to scale. You know—I think 
everybody's really early in this journey, but   what's become clear is that, you know, everybody 
now needs—realizes and is starting to lay down   these, these ground rules, the guardrails, the 
frameworks to allow them to scale this across   the organization. So, you know, I think, I think 
we're in for an exciting, exciting time in 2024.  Jacob: So now that we're getting to this 
moment, what are the key things companies have   to figure out about scaling generative AI? Susan: I would put that in , kind of two categories. And following what—on what Matt was saying in terms of use-case defined and outcome   led—100 percent on that in terms of starting 
with a hypothesis of value while at the same   time people are getting, uh, you know, closer to 
the technology, to know what their bounds are.   But the biggest, you know, set of conversations 
is in the enterprise area in terms of embarking   and using with generative AI—how to do it in 
ways, that is safe for—uh, use of data that   is safe around, not just, the larger topic 
of generative AI and hallucinations, which,   which are fun to talk about in the media, but— Jacob: It’s a fun word, right? If it was called something other than “hallucinations,” people wouldn't   talk about it as much. It was just mistakes. Susan: Yeah, that's right—just things that aren't factually true. We’ve been doing a lot 
of work at Salesforce around using, you know,   dynamic and structured—grounding the data so 
we can give very strong and not naive prompt   instructions to LLMs to get return on that.
So, so just to summarize, uh: top of mind for   organizations using, you know, large language 
models is using their data in ways that are   safe. Trusted. Not exposed. And reducing 
the opportunity for hallucinations and   maximizing relevant content. Jacob: Great. So, so Matt, Susan was talking about, you know, both what organizations are, are concerned with as they   scale generative AI and how Salesforce is 
working to sort of address those concerns.  What are you seeing at IBM? Matt: Yeah, so I think—certainly from a, from a “scaling of generative AI” perspective, 
this topic of governance, and how organizations   are going to have to govern all of these models 
that sit, sit with—inside, how they manage,   kind of, bias, fairness, model drift.
You know, if you think about the data   that's gone into a model and the output it gives 
to start with—not because the model changes,   but because the context of the world 
moves on. And so being able to kind of   manage this model drift is going to be a really 
important thing. I think data really matters.  And so quality, access, security, uh, around data 
within the enterprise is going to be critical to   scaling generative AI. And the other one I think 
that's going to be really important, and I think   many organizations haven't even got there yet in 
their thinking, is around the ESG implications.   So: carbon. You know, the use of this technology 
does not come without a cost of carbon.  Jacob: Carbon meaning it's very energy intensive. Matt: Correct. Yeah. The training of the models. And so thinking about carbon disclosures and thinking about where I'm infusing it into my   business and how much I'm using it and what the 
carbon cost of that is. As I think about the—you   know, my own organizational responsibilities to 
reduce carbon, I think, you know, there's all of   these things that I think are going to become 
important factors as people are thinking about   the scaling implications of this technology. Malcolm Gladwell: AI is already making new experiences possible, but we must be mindful in how we integrate this new technology as we   continue scaling generative AI. Matt touched upon 
some crucial aspects from an IBM perspective:   governance, bias, fairness, and security are 
all key considerations when organizations   aim to expand their use of generative AI. The 
environmental aspect is especially important,   and it’s refreshing to hear leading thinkers like 
Matt and Susan highlight these issues. As this   technology continues to evolve, these factors are 
becoming increasingly important for organizations   to address. The historic collaboration between 
IBM and Salesforce is helping to remedy issues   companies face when scaling AI. Jacob: So IBM and Salesforce recently announced a new collaborative project   around generative AI. Tell me more about that. Matt: We've been partners for over two decades now, IBM and Salesforce. And so within our consulting business, we work with Salesforce   technology to help our clients implement that 
technology to transform their businesses.  We've got a huge practice—over 12,000 people with 
certifications—around Salesforce platforms. And   so, you know, with Susan and her team 
and the broader team in Salesforce,   we're infusing more capability into the platform 
around generative AI. Then our mission is really   simple. It's to help clients who are using the 
Salesforce platform adopt those capabilities   to help them get more benefit within their 
organization. You know, we’re also a significant   user of Salesforce technology within IBM.
We're one of Salesforce's largest customers   globally. And so, you know, as we continue to 
transform our own sales and service processes   within IBM, then our use of the generative-AI 
capabilities that they're infusing into Sales   Cloud, Service Cloud, Slack, et cetera will be 
something that will become really important to   us driving productivity within the company.
And then the other thing that I would say is,   you know—as I think about the work 
that we do with clients, you know,   as they're implementing and on their generative-AI 
journeys, you know—they're going to utilize and   leverage the Salesforce capabilities within the 
platform, and their generative-AI technologies.  But then you start thinking about processes 
and workflows that run beyond the walls of CRM,   right? That run into supply chain and into 
the finance area of the organization. And   so there is work that we're doing with clients 
where we're using IBM's watsonx platform to be   able to help get access to—to generate insights 
from data sources that sit in all of these kind   of back-office areas of the enterprise, and to be 
able to get that data across the Salesforce into   these customer-interaction points and into the 
employees who are servicing those customers, using   Salesforce's AI and generative-AI technology. So 
there's a kind of “one plus one equals three” kind   of, you know, “better together,” and being—being 
able to bring our technologies together in service   of these clients’, problems as you think about 
these processes that run across their enterprise.  So, so, yeah, so, so huge, huge 
opportunity in what we're doing   together in the market to help clients. Susan: Yeah, and just building on that, uh, it is a huge moment for, for organizations and for technology companies like Salesforce.   And we couldn't be happier to have partnerships 
like we have with IBM. Like, the range of thought   leadership that is appropriate at the moment 
is everything from “What is that hypothesis   of value?” and “What are those use cases?” 
and “What is the order of operation in terms   of approaching it just in terms of focus?”
But then things that would help organizations   assess their AI readiness and then their 
approach. Like, you know, we talked earlier   about frameworks and guardrails. Uh, you know, 
“What are use cases that we're comfortable with,   given the state of the technology, that face 
employees or face customers?” So creating   these much larger roadmaps in terms of how to 
approach this over a series of initiatives.  The way it can fundamentally change the way we 
engage with technology and what that means for   the, you know, training and change management and 
use cases that fundamentally shift how you engage   with systems like Salesforce. There's just a massive opportunity for us together. Jacob: So you're talking in sort of general terms. I'm interested in, you know, 
thinking in particular about the way generative   AI can essentially lead to better business 
outcomes, right? Like, what does that look like?   How do you measure it? You know, there's a certain 
bottom-line question there, right? Like, how does   AI make businesses work better, and in what ways? Susan: You know, as consumers of products and services, we, we all love and respect great service, you know, in terms of getting timely,   quick answers, resolving issues 
quickly—all those, those types of things.  And from the perspective of, of using generative 
and predictive capabilities for agents who are   interacting with customers, there is just a whole 
ton of opportunity to take friction out of the   process in terms of finding answers, resolving 
issues, in terms of using these generative   capabilities that will bring, you know, answers 
and content to the fingertips more easily to the   human agents that are working with customers.
Now, taking that to the next step for   organizations, uh, when they're ready to 
move into more customer-facing automation,   that's yet another channel, as a consumer, we'll 
all enjoy with the brands and the products and   the services that we want in terms of fast answers 
and resolutions to customers. And as we all know,   great customer experience yields return business.
Now on the sales side, you know, maybe a different   example—and these are areas where I think the 
capability of predictive and generative go very   well together in terms of focusing on business 
outcomes. And a classic example would be,   you know, predictions that help us understand 
customer health. You know, “Is this customer   engaged?” “Is this customer at risk?” Predictions 
that help us understand the next best product or   next best conversation—these all help focus a 
sales team's time on a customer or a territory,   and so that deep focus “puts all the wood 
behind an arrow,” so to speak, in terms of   where we should be engaging. And those types 
of driven sales organizations that have these   capabilities just lead to better performance 
and outcomes and customer experience, too.  Now, let's also layer in generative capabilities, 
uh, where we're using the generative capabilities   to assist and augment a sales team, where 
we're using the power of generative for   everything like generating, uh, personalized 
and relevant customer- interaction content.  For example, leveraging our customer data—like 
engagement history, product purchases,   service history—to create an email or a campaign. 
And, uh, the scale of automation has just never   been possible before. And, you know, maybe even 
taking this one step further with generative,   where we take all the administrative friction out 
of the day job and doing things for sales teams,   like summarizing their calls or 
creating a meeting plan for them.  And, you know, very broadly speaking, using 
generative AI to change the interaction   mode with systems like Salesforce 
from clicks and, and training, uh,   where people have to focus on the process, 
to more-conversational user experiences,   which are much more engaging and easier to use. 
So all of this together is just incredible and   transformational, uh, and makes, uh, 
all businesses and people work better.  Jacob: I just want to spend one more moment 
on the partnership between IBM and Salesforce   and generative AI. And there's this phrase that's 
interesting to me. It's “ecosystem partnership.”   That, I think, is relevant here. So what is an 
“ecosystem partnership” and why is it, you know,   helpful in, in creating scalable AI solutions? Matt: This idea of being open, I think is probably one of the most important premises for us as technology companies, for us as consultancies   and system integrators. And for our clients to 
think about the, the sources of value that can   be created through taking an open approach is 
hugely important. So if I think about—for us,   “ecosystem” means making sure that we have 
all of the different partnerships that we   need with technology providers, with service 
providers—that we can bring to our clients the   right set of capabilities to solve the problem 
that they've got, and not thinking that just,   you know, what we have in house or what we have 
with just one other partner that we work with,   you know, is, is, is the right thing.
And so, you know, I think every problem   that our clients have is solved through a 
range of technologies that come together in   service of creating that business outcome. Jacob: I want to touch briefly on ethics and governance. Something like 80 percent of CEOs see explainability, ethics, bias,   trust as major concerns on the road to 
AI adoption. And so I'm, I'm curious how   business leaders navigate these things, and in 
particular how Salesforce and IBM are building   these concerns into how they work with customers. Susan: You know, we've been incorporating predictive machine learning into our, our products since mid–last decade, and at that time we started   with all of our ethics and governance, work at 
that time in terms of frameworks for engaging with   AI in ethical and safe ways, and have a lot of 
guidance for customers in terms of those programs.  The machine-learning, focus that we've had 
at Salesforce has always been deeply focused   on explainability. So if we're making, 
you know, predictive recommendations   to explain how we got to that, you know, 
whether—that's something that a user sees as  they're engaging with it, so they have full 
trust, uh, in terms of interacting with it, but   also for the practitioners who are building it.
So we have this, like, long-standing vibe and   capability with our predictive, side of the house, 
and on the generative side of the house, you know,   the state of the marketplace right now is—LLMs 
for most people are, are largely black boxes,   uh, in terms of not fully interpretable in 
terms of how they come up with their content.  Now, that said, there is a lot that you 
can do in terms of audit, in terms of,   you know, transparency, in terms of “What are 
the prompts that are being submitted to these   LLMs?” “What do these LLMs provide back in 
terms of return?” And then “What did the   human do to change it, use it, or adjust it?”
So we've been updating all of our ethics and,   and governance frameworks now, I guess I would 
call it, with safety components as well in terms   of how to work with data, in safe ways and 
with these transparent governance models.  Matt: Yeah. So, I mean, this is an area that IBM 
has been kind of working on for many years. And   so, you know, our AI ethics board that we have 
internally kind of governs and, and provides   frameworks and guidance for everything that we do 
in the company. There's a lot of work that we do   to help our clients and organizations establish 
their strategies for AI governance, as well as   their own internal policies, models, approaches, 
ethics boards, et cetera. And so, you know,   helping them put in place these ground rules and 
guardrails, organizational process, uh, changes,   et cetera, I think is a really important part 
of this scaling discussion that we were having   earlier as, as, as people are going to be kind of 
rolling out more of this technology internally.  And then I think there's, a lot that organizations 
are going to have to do to think about— especially   in the generative world—around all of the 
different types of models that they're using,   models that they're training and tuning 
and building, and how they manage all of   those for explainability and bias drift 
and, actually, regulatory requirements.  Like if you—if you think about what's, what's 
happening around the world as different   countries—uh, the EU AI Act—you know, there's 
lots of different regulatory requirements that are   going to be coming in. And so for multinational 
companies operating across multiple countries,   how they're going to be—have to make sure that 
they're, they're complying with all of not only   their own internal policies, but the
requirements of the country,   as well as, potentially, industry 
regulatory requirements as well.  And so there's a lot that we are doing and going 
to be doing in, helping them manage complexity.   But IBM has a very firm view that we believe 
that this is all about regulating AI risk,   not AI algorithms, and so focusing on, 
precision regulation. So, you know,   use the, use the bodies and—regulatory bodies 
that are out there to provide the, the control,   as opposed to trying to regulate the technology. Jacob: So generative AI is changing kind of absurdly quickly, right? A year and a half ago, we wouldn't have been having this conversation.  We're here today. Everything's happening now. 
I'm curious what you both think about— about the   near-term future of generative AI, right? If we 
came back in a year, or let's say two years from   now, if we came back two years from now to talk 
about the work you're doing in generative AI,   what would we be talking about? Susan: I use this example sometimes. I have three kids, and I don't think any of them 
have ever gone into a bank to deposit a check,   right? They pull out their mobile phone and they scan the check with the camera, and they're done. Jacob: I'm surprised that they even know what a check is, for the record, but yes. Susan: Right. Well, yeah, uh, sometimes their parents give them one. Like, they get direct deposit. But anyway, like, this experience of,   like, “What do you mean I go into a branch and 
cash a check? I just do this with my mobile   phone.” And I, I think a little bit of, of it that 
way in terms of the systems that we use at work. I   can imagine explaining to my, my kids like, “Oh, 
yeah, at Salesforce, you know, back when someone   had their first day on the job, you know, as 
a, as a service agent or as a salesperson,   they would have tabs on the screen and they 
would be trained where to click and they'd have   documented processes in manuals, and it showed 
them where to get from point A to point B.”  And as the clock turns forward, they're just 
interacting with a natural-language prompt. But,   it just kind of fundamentally 
changes the way we'll be able   to interact with our systems of record at work. Jacob: It’ll be just much more conversational. Instead of clicking through something, 
you'll just basically have a conversation.  Susan: Much more conversational. Matt: Yeah, this is the biggest paradigm shift in how we interact with technology, I
think, since the graphical user interface.  And it's going to enable us to almost put aside 
all of that complexity within organizations   around system silos, process silos, flows, 
because you're just going to layer this, just,   simple, natural-language interface over all of 
that complexity. Yeah. It's going to amplify,   I think, the potential of every person on every 
team in a way that we've never been able to see   before. And the other thing that I think, as you 
project forward in a couple of years—and Susan,   just picking up on the point that you 
talked about, about banking, you know,   I think there's a wonderful little example.
If you think back to the ’70s and the ’80s,   when the ATM, kind of, cash machines 
were rolling out—and at that time it   wasn't really a reaction that was one 
of awe or appreciation for convenience,   but people were concerned that we were 
automating away the bank-teller jobs,   right? But now when you think about it, what 
actually happened was, this technology allowed   the banks to scale their branch networks, more 
branches than ever before, more bank tellers than   ever before. Bank-teller employment and salaries 
increased, even though we automated a lot of work,   because when they weren't having to spend 
their time counting cash out for people,   they were able to do more-valuable things, right?
And new types of financial products and services   and mortgages. And so if I think back to that, 
in the ’70s and ’80s, and then I project to   where we are today, we're just going to 
unleash this creativity and potential for   employees and enterprises by freeing up the 
time that they're spending on things that,   you know—they can do far more value-added tasks.
And so I think—we're going to be amazed, I think,   around what, what happens and what companies and 
people are going to be able to do as we give them   the time and space to be able to do that. Jacob: Great. So just to close, I want to talk about how both of you use creativity in your own work. Just to start with you, Matt: I know that you love to combine creativity 
and technology through design. Do you use   generative AI in your own creative process? Matt: Yeah, so I, I, I'm a firm believer that this combination of experience and AI is going to be the thing that makes a difference. Like,   these large language models and this technology 
has been around actually for a number of years.   And it's only at the point, late 2022, 
where open AI wrapped a digital experience   around this and put it in the hands of 
people, that suddenly the transformative   power of this technology was realized.
And so I think the way that we surface   these capabilities and put them in the hands 
of people, to be able to adopt it in a really   frictionless way, is, is the thing that's going to 
be, hugely important to the adoption and scaling   of this. So I, I think the most important 
thing for companies to do is to make people,   not technology, central to their strategy. Jacob: Just to go more broadly into your work, Susan—I mean, I know that you have, have launched Salesforce's AI products into   the market and that, you know, a lot 
of those have been built—obviously,   given Salesforce’s business—around helping 
people build stronger customer relationships.  Right? And so I'm curious: what 
creativity did you bring to that work?  Susan: Some of the products that I work with 
at Salesforce—they're, they're deeply visually   focused. And my personal perspective is, 
is that the world can be really noisy. Uh,   we're just inundated with all sorts of demands 
on our time through so many channels, right?   Like the phone is firing off, you're getting 
instant messages, you're getting Slack messages,   you're getting, you know, DMS, you're 
getting emails, your phone is ringing,   there's processes that are bearing down on you.
And if we can use really good design to filter   out and essentially weed the garden— because, you 
know, we have this, this phrase at Salesforce,   is “Everything—if everything's important, 
nothing's important.” So using really good design   to create the user experience in Salesforce just 
brings stuff to life in the most powerful way.  So I always think of it from that perspective. 
Like if I'm going to put this on a screen, and,   and, and Salesforce—what did I not put on? 
Is this the most important thing? And is this   the thing that's going to align everyone to the 
larger initiative of the firm? So, so it's that   kind of design thinking that I use probably every 
moment of the day, whether I'm building a demo or   talking to an executive at a company in terms 
of—as I see a vision for how they might deploy   our products, to actual product development. Jacob: And then just to kind of bring together these two themes we've been talking about: on the one hand, this sort of—ecosystem partnerships,   and on the other hand, creativity.
I mean, can you talk a little bit   about how working with, working with partners 
can foster a different kind of creativity?  Susan: More perspectives are always 
better than few perspectives.  Matt: I completely agree.
I think the more minds, the   more perspectives, the more experiences, I think 
about some of the best sessions, best workshops,   best work we do with clients—it's when you've 
got people not just from one industry but from   many industries, because actually the adjacencies 
and the things that are happening in these other   spaces trigger new thoughts and new ideas. And 
so, you know, I think the richness that we get   when we partner with Salesforce together around 
helping clients transform their front office,   their sales, service, marketing processes, 
we all bring these unique experiences.  And I think that just opens 
the aperture to better, better   outcomes and better perspectives for our clients. Susan: Well, you know, you've been asking these questions about, like the use of, of tech and AI and creativity all sort of in the same sentence.  And one of the things that I also think of 
is—in terms of remaining deeply creative—is   the actual process of unplugging for all—from 
all that stuff. So taking a trial run with no   earphones in your head for me is always a really 
good way of unleashing and unbridling a lot of,   you know, creative spirit.
Just that, that downtime and   the unstructured time where your brain can 
just run free, actually, not assisted by any   kind of device in my head or in my face. So— Jacob: I think, with that praise of unplugged time, we should say goodbye and let's unplug. It was lovely to talk with you guys. It was   really interesting to learn about your work 
and the relationship between the companies.  So thank you for your time. Matt: Thank you, Jacob. Thank you. Malcolm Gladwell: A huge thanks is due to  Jacob, Matt and Susan for illuminating the possibilities of generative AI. This technology has great promise for creating new experiences in the future but requires the scaling capabilities made possible   by partnerships like IBM and Salesforce.
As our conversation with Susan and Matt   illustrated, we’re at an exciting phase 
of adoption. Most companies have moved   beyond experimentation and are now prioritizing 
scaling. The key areas of focus for organizations   now include managing multiple AI models, as 
well as thinking about specific use cases   and desired outcomes. However, this scale is 
difficult for companies to do on their own.  To unlock the real potential of generative AI 
in transforming experiences, they’ll require   the scaling capabilities made possible 
by partnerships like IBM and Salesforce.  This conversation showed the promise of 
teamwork. When massive companies combine   their brainpower to push forward technology, 
their collaborative efforts have the potential   to revolutionize industries.
One quick programming note:   we will be taking a little time off, and will be 
returning in just a few weeks with a new episode.  Smart Talks with IBM is produced by Matt 
Romano, Joey Fischground, David Zha, and   Jacob Goldstein. We’re edited by Lidia Jean Kott.
Our engineers are Jason Gambrell, Sarah Bruguiere,   and Ben Tolliday. Theme song by Gramoscope.
Special thanks to Andy Kelly, Kathy Callaghan,   and the EightBar and IBM teams, as well as the 
Pushkin marketing team. Smart Talks with IBM is a   production of Pushkin Industries and Ruby Studio 
at iHeartMedia. To find more Pushkin podcasts,   listen on the iHeartRadio app, 
Apple Podcasts, or wherever you   listen to podcasts. I’m Malcolm Gladwell.
This is a paid advertisement from IBM.