So where do I think AI will be in five
to ten years? While the possibilities are endless I
believe the most consequential will be secure application development name is
Sridhar Muppidi, I'm the CTO for IBM Security. Our clients
are going through a digital transformation journey,
they're modernizing applications data and infrastructure.
IBM delivers a number of security solutions to help our clients
protect detect and respond, but the reality is that security
professionals that use our offerings are inundated
with too many things to do, too much of data,
very little time, and too few skills. AI can have a huge impact on cyber security
solutions and the professionals. Since the
inception of AI we've learned that to make at the right
AI system we need the right data we need to train
the AI model on the right data test it for bias
as well as to ensure that it is robust on the solution side. AI can help us
provide accuracy in detection ai can help in
accelerating the investigation and automating the response
it can also help provide proactive mechanisms of protection
so that you're safeguarding against threats we made a massive investment on
AI, and IBM and 100 of our products use
AI my favorite solution is how we use AI to do a continuous verification of a
user based on behavioral biometrics this helps us evaluate the risk of a
specific user for a specific session. So based on that we're able to subject
the user to right amount of friction. If the risk is low we don't need to
subject the user from multiple passwords on the other hand if the risk is high
you may want to prompt the user for a password or even a second
factor authentication. We're very fortunate to have a large
number of our clients using our solutions across
number of different industry verticals. A few that come to my mind
are Wimbledon suggested as well as RGS Nordic this is exactly
where we apply AI's speed and accuracy to help
create proactive protection improve the accuracy of detection accelerate the
investigation as well as improve the automation
in response. We have a lot more to learn and
evolve the maturity of AI in the next few decades to come.
While the possibilities are endless my vision is for AI
to develop secure applications by default
so that they are not as vulnerable and reduce the number of breaches
in the industry I believe IBM is well poised to not only help with the secure
application development, but also secure data across hybrid cloud
as well as secure infrastructure this ability to secure
the journey to hybrid cloud will help our clients embrace digital
transformation with a lot more confidence.