I'm here with Ric Lewis. Ric, welcome. Thank you. Here we're here at IBM's new New York
City headquarters at One Madison Avenue. I'm going to start with,
you're a hardware guy? I'm a hardware guy. I grew up doing hardware chip engineering. But like I tell a lot of people, a
chip engineering project is actually a giant software project with a piece
of hardware at the end of the project. I think if you have that analytical
brain, you like to solve problems. You like to get things working. Um, you can do that in
software and hardware. But does that, but does being
someone coming from a hardware background mean that you think
about problems in a different way? I think one thing that you do
from a hardware background and especially a chip background is a
chip spin costs millions of dollars. So you're a lot more likely to make
sure everything has a great chance of being perfect from the get go. Where if you start kind of from a software
background, your general mindset is, I don't know, try this, see if it works. I don't know, try that
and see if it works. And you're kind of
iterate, iterate, iterate. Chip people are a little
more uptight about, okay. If, if this first round of the
chip breaks costs us for building another new round of the chip. So you're a little more, you, you guys
are, spend more time planning and… Planning, verifying. Tons of time verifying Yeah, so you began your
career at Hewlett Packard. Yes, correct. And you were there for how many years? I was there for 32 years. And your last job there was? I was leading the software
defining cloud business. I had grown up a hardware guy. I had done all kinds of hardware
projects, big complicated Unix servers and things like that. Um, and then came, you know, grew out of
R and D and more into the business realm. And then, uh, I'm much
an innovator at heart. I really like innovating new,
uh, concepts, things like that. And what I learned is I enjoyed
innovating business models and software projects as much as I did hardware
products and projects and so getting teams inspired toward doing that was
really a deep fascination for me. So I ended up doing a fantastic variety
of experiences and had a successful run and honestly retired, intending
to retire and do some of my outside activities and things like that. And then how long did you stay
retired before IBM came calling? It was almost two years. And when I first got the call, I
thought, no, I'm having too much fun. Um, but I would say three things
really got me thinking hard about it. One: the industry that
we're in, the IT Industry. I think it's the golden age. And what I mean by that is for
20 years of that career, IT's kind of in the back office. "Hey, make sure that stuff doesn't
crash, and can you please reduce the cost as much as possible? Because
it's not that important to the main business. It's just a back office
function.” You can see it right now. IT is at the forefront of
all business revolution. It happened with the Internet. Uh, it happened again with cloud and, and
how that changed every ounce of business, not just IT Business, but all business. And I think it's happening again with AI. So to be in that career that long and
to miss the kind of this age where it's like this is front and center. This changes everything
about all businesses, not just technology businesses. I was kind of feeling like, gosh,
you, you train to be in these really, uh, awesome environments. Why wouldn't you do that for a little
while longer while you still can do it? That combined with IBM and IBM seeing the
talent pool, the brilliant people at IBM. Um, I worked with a ton of
brilliant people before. I saw a chance to work with even a
larger staff of brilliant people. And then the assets that IBM had,
which is, you know, they'd already been doing a lot of experimentation in AI. They're working in, in quantum, the deep,
rich heritage of successful projects. I thought who wouldn't want to
kind of see if they could be part of that next great wave of IBM. And so, um, I kind of decided, all right,
I'm going to put the outside interests on hold for a while and get back in the game. How long between the phone call, the
first phone call, and you saying yes? It was a while. It was probably six months. Arvind, our CEO, teases
me about that a lot. Yeah, I don't think six
months is that long. It took a while. You were in retirement! I know exactly. I mean, it's one thing to compare. I'm working here and doing this
stuff versus working there. But it's really hard to compare. I'm doing exactly as I want to do
every single day when I wake up. And now I'm not going
to get to do that again. Um, it took a while for me to get over it. And I thought, I can't miss this wave. And, and, uh, I'm really, really
happy that I did because we're doing some amazing, fun things. And I'm getting challenged
in ways that I never did. So it's really fun. Talk a little bit about your
job here at IBM, you oversee a kind of massive portfolio It's a big group. So I run the infrastructure organization. There's three main groups
of products at IBM. There's the infrastructure
group, which I run. The software group, uh,
and the consulting group. Um, and infrastructure is
built up of mainframes, which is called our Z portfolio. Um, our servers, which
is our power portfolio. Storage. By the way, those businesses include the
supply chain to build all of that stuff. So that's in the group. Uh, then I have the worldwide
customer support organization. It's called, uh, TLS Technology Lifecycle
Services, which is a network of about 13,000 people around the globe that
make sure that everything runs and works when you buy IBM products and then also
our IBM cloud, which is, um, how we, uh, host applications, deliver as a
service products for our client base. So there's a lot. It's, I think it's about
45,000 people total. Do those, uh, components of
the infrastructure group? Are they aligned in their trajectory? Or do they, are they on different paths? I'm just curious about sort of navigating… A little of both. It's interesting you would ask
that, because I think of all of the challenges coming to the new company. There were things I expected,
things that I didn't expect, but getting that culture right in the
group, um, has been a big challenge. Um, IBM has a great culture toward quality
products, toward, um, emphasizing passion for the client, and making sure that
the client is happy, and for delivering innovation on a scale that, that, you
know, for more than a hundred years has, has been, um, extremely powerful. But with success comes some challenges. And with that success, you can tend to get
a little bit, um, insular, like you don't keep an eye on the competition as well. You can get more siloed where you
know this is my business unit. This is my business unit. I compete with the other business unit. That's not a good thing when you, when
you're a company, um, and you can get really risk averse, meaning you, you
feel like, “Hey, this is a successful business. I don't want to do anything to
mess it up. So I don't need to try new things.” Well, that's exactly the recipe
to kind of be shrinking and infrastructure had been shrinking for a little while. And so a lot of what, um, the challenge
was for me was to invigorate that risk taking and, and, uh, get to a growth
mindset where you're trying new things and seeing what works and what doesn't
work and changing some of the models, like investing a little bit less in
hardware for some software differentiation that goes into the hardware. So, um, it's been very successful
so far and it's been a good journey. It's almost four years now. Give me an example of what was a
really hard problem that you've dealt with in those four years. Boy, a really hard problem. Or an interesting. Interesting is a better word than hard. One of the first things that I kind
of chewed on a little bit is, I talked about how we have Z power and storage. The Z and power product lines are well
known in the industry as really fit for purpose computing that have strengths,
that, you know, Z runs, um, you know, most of the world's economic backbone. And, and, uh, if you use a credit card,
90 percent of credit card transactions for the globe go through these Z mainframes. They're in every bank there,
you know, it's a big business. It's well known in the industry. Same with power, very tuned and optimized
for, for smaller operations than, than our giant Z mainframes, but really,
mission critical workloads for retail, for insurance, for banking, for all of that. Our storage business - not so well known. In fact, when I came, I
thought, did they have storage? Will I have storage when I come into IBM? So I got online and I thought
it's still hard for me to tell, do they have storage or not? Now I own a storage business. So one of the things was not just to get
the market perception up, but to invest in that business, because if you look
at infrastructure overall around the globe, it's growing at 5 percent a year. The infrastructure business had
been kind of flat to declining. And so a challenge was how
do we grab onto the growth? Well, one of the biggest growth
areas, due to the explosion of data, in the world is storage. So what do you do to kind
of get on that growth rates? We did a lot of reinvigoration
of the innovation in that, a lot of software value add, a lot of
doubling down on the things that are working portfolio rationalization
where you segment the market. You say, “Okay, we're going to do less
of this and really go big in these areas.” And that's been probably the most
dramatic turnaround inside the group is, is our storage thing. When you say it's
a hard problem, it's not just, “Oh, you know, how do we do the math?” No, it's,
it's cultural, it's, it's strategy. And how do you get the strategy said. It's segmentation, it's product
strategy at a granular level across a bunch of dimensions and then
putting the investment behind it. Um, it's a big challenge. It takes a long time, but it's working. So we're happy. Yeah. Tell me, give me a little
bit of perspective on you've been there four years. Imagine we're having this
conversation four years ago. Yeah. What sorts of things have happened
over the last four years that, uh, have surprised you that you didn't see
come or at least, are we having exactly the same conversation four years ago? Um, no, because I didn't know
what was in, I'll tell you some of the biggest surprises. I thought from the outside and, and
you know, you, you hear from a lot of customers, especially 10 years ago. “We're all going to
cloud.” We're all doing. So I thought, Well, I wonder if the
mainframe business is struggling when I get inside of there. I found the opposite to be true. The mainframe business is
actually flourishing because transaction demand across the
globe has done nothing but grow. And even more surprising was the
level of innovation that the team was already doing in mainframes
before I got here was astounding. For example, we have AI they were
building AI technology into the mainframe processors three years before ChatGPT made
everybody talk about it in the industry. So, um, that was really
pleasantly surprising. So that was wonderful. Um, other surprises. I knew about the kind of the IP
of IBM and the mystique in that. And I used to joke with people,
especially on the outside. I said, I can't wait to get in there
and see what's in the big blue toolbox. Right? What are all the things
they have going on? I way underestimated the size of the
big blue toolbox and what was in there. Meaning, um, the amount of really
hardcore research that we're still doing into how to build chips and, and how
to get to things beyond two nanometer and, and that kind of capability. Packaging, industry leading
packaging technologies, um. That's in my hardware kind of patch. Quantum. The next thing that'll come after
we're done talking about AI, um, you know, all of, all of those things were
surprising, but it wasn't just that. It was then the software
innovations that are going on. Heavy investment in AI technologies
before it was really popular to be talking about that. But as I saw that, I thought,
this is going to get really fun because I had a good feel for
where the industry was going. I just didn't. And I knew, man, I know that talent is
really good and there's brilliant people there, but I didn't know the level
of, of IP, frankly that, that IBM had at its disposal and now you're seeing
that in things like watsonx and things like AI in, in mainframes, et cetera. Building on that, since you brought
up AI, can you walk me through what has to happen from your perspective,
from the infrastructure perspective to make the AI explosion work? So everyone wants to
do more of this stuff. Clearly there has to be
some underpinning of it. Yeah, I would tell you, you know I think
that people feel like where we're at right now in the AI journey had to do
with one specific piece of software. I think the inflection point
for that whole thing really, at its root was around hardware. Meaning the algorithms needed
to do large language models and all of that had been around. They've been talked about in the
industry, but at some point you hit a tipping point of, of hardware
capability where it's like, oh, now we can do this in a brute force way. Massive amounts of matrix math to get
weights correct so that you can do, um, you know, the right level of predictions
that enable large language models. And once we've got to that horsepower,
and that's why you hear about giant GPUs that are driving this
and the sales of those, et cetera. It's because we just barely got
over the hump where you can do these big, hard things in terms
of hardware capability to do it. Give me a layman, give me a
sense of when you say there was a kind of threshold where suddenly
these things became possible. I don't know if there's an exact number,
but, more basic question that I get from a lot of people, you know, my
friends and family outside, is why GPUs? What does, what does a GPU
graphics processor have to do? With AI, it's not. Well, graphics processors are really
good at this thing matrix math because they're figuring out how do I map a pixel? And as I move an object across
the screen, it's essentially matrix math to figure out. Okay, what is what is what is this
pixel on the screen look like? And what's it doing? And as you know, we've gotten more
high resolution graphics, more high resolution monitors, et cetera. It's a lot more pixels and a lot
more math and a lot more matrix math about how you compute that. The first big thing that kind of
started to look like that, it turns out was crypto and crypto mining. And so you saw graphics companies
starting to sell to crypto. The technology got to a certain
point and there were use cases like Bitcoin and that, that, that kind of
said, "Hey, we need to do a lot of this matrix math to, to be able to
do that." Um, so graphic chips were a natural fit and that kind of sustained. But meanwhile, behind the
scenes, a lot of this AI. AI is about numeric calculations having
to do with weights and matrices that say, you know, giant consolidated things that
predict what's going to kind of happen based on, what other things have happened,
just like predicting where a Pixel goes, but it's really about being able to do
enough data ingest to be able to do, and then the calculations to be able
to simplify things like entire sets of language or giant chunks of the internet
to get enough weightings in there to be able to say, okay, we can predict what you
would say in this language based on all of the volumes of stuff that we've seen
that when you start talking like this, the next word is likely, oh, it's this. So- But my point is, to get to that point,
that threshold, we got there because, was it because we simply threw a
lot more resources at the problem? Or is it because the underlying
technology got suddenly or gradually so much more efficient? It's always yes and yes, but you
know, uh, the industry for a lot of years would talk about Moore's Law. Rick, quick, will you define
for us, uh, Moore's Law, for those who've forgotten it? Yeah, so, uh, Gordon Moore at Intel
coined this thing, it was basically that the horsepower, I'm going to
translate it roughly of, uh, technology will double every couple of years. We’re still on Moore's Law. Moore's Law changed a little bit. For a while, it was
always about frequency. Things would go faster, faster, faster. That kind of petered out. But what happened is rather
than faster, faster, faster, we did more and more and more. So rather than one operating unit
going a lot faster on its throughput, you put 10 operating units on a chip. Now you put 100 operating units on a chip. Now 1000. Some of these problems, the matrix math
problems, scale parallel extremely well. You don't have to do
something really fast. You just have to do a lot of the similar
things in parallel at the same time. So again, that kind of that, extension
of Moore's Law, more and more hardware on a chip to be able to do more
and more of those calculations in parallel and come up with answers. Was that threshold predictable? In other words, did people in the
industry like you sit down X number of years ago and say, when we get here,
AI is going to become much more of a? It's funny. The horsepower - that - very predictable. The use cases, not always so
easy to kind of figure out. That's where the human
spirit kind of gets involved. Um, I think for some people they
say, “Oh, I saw that coming.” But people have been predicting kind
of the rise of AI for 25 years. Oh, well, then when we get to
this next gen or when we get here. It kind of hadn't happened. There's always a magic point where you
kind of get to where the technology and the use case, and somebody does
something to kind of make it catch on. And I think we're at one of those
moments in AI for sure right now. And I don't think it's you
know, people have said, Oh, this is just the latest wave of. You know, uh, I used to hear,
I've heard this about a lot of technologies, but AI is the technology,
the future, and it always will be. I used to hear that. Um, you're not hearing that now, right? It's like, no, it's prime time. It will change everything. Just like some of these other
things changed everything. I noticed sort of personally,
when I speak somewhere where I'm listening in an audience somewhere
over the last, let's say 12 months. There is always a whole
bunch of AI questions. Yes. And if I go back two years ago,
there were no AI questions. Yes. Now, my question is, so there's been
this explosion on the, in popular fascination with what's going on AI. It seems like the last year. I agree with you. In your world. When did the explosion of
conversation around this start? It's, uh, I love this question because. IBM had a, um, fairly big
effort and business, um, called Watson before watsonx. And this is going back kind of ten years. I'll give you another kind of example. I knew about a lot of tablet
technology before there was an iPad. A lot. For 10 years, there were a lot. But it kind of takes a magic
combination of the technology, the user experience, the software, and
the need and the market ready for it to kind of go, now it's a thing. Now we all have either an iPad or we
have the Google equivalent, And so I think this is a little like that, meaning
IBM was on the right track with watson. Some of the hardware wasn't there. The use cases weren't exactly figured out. Some of the early use cases
didn't pan out perfectly. But the good news about that is it's
back to that culture of risk taking. You don't look back on that and say,
“Oh, we shouldn't have done that. That was a bad idea.” No, you look back
on that and say, “What did we learn? How should we try something new? How would we pivot this time?” That's
what we've done with watsonx and uh, now that's a growing healthy
piece of our business and very important to our strategic future. So we're all in. I mean, I've just, I've always
been fascinated by the gap between insider sense of what is
happening and outsider sense, like… It absolutely is that in this case,
we've all been talking about and thinking about AI and, and is it time for that? And what does this mean? Et cetera. And yet none of us really predicted
that actual moment, which is kind of, you know, early 2022 where it
was like, Oh, now you have a simple human interface of software innovation
combined with large language models. There's a moment there where you're
like, Oh, unlike, you know, I think all of us are frustrated if we ask
our phone, “Hey, tell me about this.” And it says, “I found this on the
web page.” That does, you know, good. But, you know, all of a sudden with
with, um, ChatGPT and some of these other things, you could ask a question. It would give you a clear answer. Sometimes it's wrong, but at least
it was like I'm getting an answer rather than, “Hey, I don't know.
Here's some references. Good luck to you.” And that's really changing. Talk about the kind of macro
trends that are going to shape your infrastructure battle Yeah. Um, we've talked about a few
already, but I'm actually going to go a little different direction. So macro trends first, and
this one has been before even, even this AI conversation that
we've had: explosion of data. Uh, as humans, we don't think
exponentially very well. We really struggle with
exponential thinking. We think linearly. Oh, there'll be more. There'll be more. There'll be more. But we don't think, well, when
it's like, no, there'll be more and there'll be 10 times more and then
there'll be 10 times that more. That's what's going on with
data right now in our industry. It's one of the reasons that that
storage business is doing so well, is there’s just more and more and more data. Um, you know, you'd say, well,
how can there be more data? It's just life and that thing. The things that we care
about: video capture, video images, you know, the thing. I don't know. For my parents, you needed a
drawer with all your family photos. Now we need gigabytes and gigabytes. If you knew how many pictures my wife
has taken of our children, you would. Exactly, exactly so that,
so that's your case. Now think of companies who used to just
think about their transaction data. What's the ledger say? That now have video assets of all of
their campaigns and their marketing. They're trying to figure out, you know
what campaigns are working the best. It's just an explosion of data. And that's not going to stop. Dealing with that, and more importantly,
getting value from that data is, is a massive trend in the industry. Second trend, AI. And this is the AI, not like we
were just talking about, about how it changes how I search for
things or how I learn about things. But I would argue dealing with that data. How do I figure out what's
in all those video streams? How do I figure out - Okay, I want all
of the chunks of my corporate video that have to do with, uh, client buying
some specific product or something. That's a different problem. It's not just, okay we'll look it
up in a spreadsheet, and here's the math associated with that. That is a huge trend in the industry. You're seeing it play out in this regard. It's a little different bent on AI. Fraud detection is the one that
we cite in our main frames. It's a similar problem where it was
kind of a traditional AI problem. Look up a rule, you know, if somebody
does too small transactions, then a massive one, it might be fraud, right? Because they were seeing
whether it worked. Now to detect fraud, you might be saying,
okay, two transactions, then a huge one. Plus, does this entity
have a real address? Second, is there any web traffic on,
you know, better business bureau kind of things that says this is a bad
business that could help you with fraud. So it's a lot more of a,
it's an exponential problem. It's a holistic problem that takes a
lot more than just, you know, little chunks of rules, etc. And then the
third one, you know, after AI is the nature of hybrid IT or hybrid computing. For a while, 10 years ago, when cloud
was on the rise, I think, the notion of hybrid computing basically having
to do with things in the cloud versus things that people still have, um,
on the premises inside a business. It was almost a religious argument. Now it's no, it's the reality. And the reason is because that data that
I talked about is the lifeblood of these companies, particularly IBM's companies. Our clients that usually
that data has to be secure. They have to be able to get value from it. It is the lifeblood of the company. If you go to an A. T. M. And you
can't get your money out, you know, to our financial transactions. If that lasts a day, you're probably
going to change banks immediate. So it's like life or
death to these companies. So having that hybrid infrastructure
so that they can still hold their data yet still interact with clouds
and still get value from it from AI. That's a kind of the magic where we play,
and it's a huge business opportunity. It is a true inflection
point for the industry. Mhmm. I'm gonna go back. I interrupted you when you were in the
middle of a really, we were talking about what has to happen for, um, for AI to
scale from the infrastructure standpoint. You gave one example then
I got you off on a tangent. Can you go back and talk? Very sort of practically, like. So I'm, you know, I'm a big company. I have all these dreams of AI of how
I'm going to use this dramatically. So give me a very granular
sense of the works you have to do to make that dream possible. So let me first say what
the company has to do. And then maybe I'll say then how do
I help them, if that makes sense. So if I'm a company and I want to do that. So it turns out I am a company, meaning
I want to use AI in my processes. I mentioned that I have a global network
of 13,000 employees that support our infrastructure around the world. That challenge is a
great challenge for AI. That means I have data for every
customer situation for 13,000 employees globally around the
world on what was their problem? How did we fix it? Um, what next steps did they have to do? How did they remediate that? That data is extremely valuable to
me because if I can get better at doing that than anybody else in the
world, that brings my cost down. I sell more products. I sell more service. I sell more anything. So what I have to do to get
there is I have to figure out, okay, what's my objective? I have a couple objectives. One, I want customers to be able to
support themselves without even calling me first off, and I don't want when they,
when they call for the first answer to come back to be, did you try rebooting? Because I think that irritates
every single one of us. Did you try? “Of course, I tried rebooting. I've had a
laptop my entire life. Of course.” Well, okay, well, then tell me, okay, what
firmware version, all that other stuff. Okay, we know this interaction. So, you know, So that's
kind of the problem set. Do I want that to be customers
solving their own problems? Well, even for my support agents, I
want something in their pocket on their phone where they say I'm seeing these
symptoms and says, “Oh, this happened in around the globe. Here's here's kind
of specific.” So there's my problem. And what does it mean for for
infrastructure on the back end? So first, I got to get all
that data together, right? All of those customer law, all that
customer support around the globe, et cetera, that needs to be stored. That's a big set of data. And some of it's not just fix
and, and that kind of thing. Some of it is okay. You know, what was the firmware version? Who was the tech? Cause it can matter. Is this their first time
fixing this problem? Is it their 150th time? What's their level? It's a very complicated problem. Ingesting all that data
takes an architecture. We have a product called Scale,
um, which is one of our storage projects that actually makes it
easy to ingest all that data, get it organized, etc. And then have a model. It's a whole different process to
kind of say, did we train our model? We train our own models inside of IBM. We have a Granite set of models. Those models we fine tune and then
we inference based on those models. So we can do that
inferencing in our cloud. I have a cloud set of infrastructure
or in my power servers. We can do inferencing with our
capabilities and say, OK, based on what I'm saying, here's what the remediation
that you should do for that customer. We already are doing that today. We've seen, um, over a third of our
support calls have had significant reduction in the amount of time that
it takes to resolve that support call just by what I said right there. Does that I've really
been curious about this. If I had reduced something like AI into
that equation, as you just did, and you said, we've already seen a 30 percent,
you say, did you say 30 percent reduction? 30 percent of our interactions have
seen significant reduction in the time Was that your primary goal to
reduce the time of the interaction? In other words, if you, if everything
else was the same, but all, but what you were doing was shrinking the amount of
time that, would you declare victory? One of the primary goals. So, to us in that business, uh, net
promoter score, kind of the satisfaction of a client is the supreme goal. What makes them satisfied? Doesn't cost me a fortune,
happens really quickly. And if I can do it
myself, I'd be thrilled. It affects all of those, right? It kind of says it got resolved faster. It didn't cost me an arm and a leg
because the tech was barely here because it's a common problem. Or I solved it myself
without even calling one. So, um, all of those objectives we kind
of hit across all so that now you see it. So that's a little microcosm. That's just me and my
customer support business. Now think of how many problems
for businesses around the world there are like that. It's not a, it's not like a
new AI application that changes the entire user experience. That's, those will come, but right now
it's kind of practical, which is, I just want to do what I'm doing better
and faster, and I can get immediate economic return from those things. How long, how long did it take you
to just stick with that example of the customer interaction, reducing 30
percent of the time, how long from the very beginning of that project to that
30 percent reduction was how long? Uh, less than a year. And. Yeah. So we, one of the challenges, and
this is interesting with a very large organization, as you can imagine, just
like you're seeing in the industry, we don't have a problem of generating
ideas for how AI could help us. We actually have a problem filtering
the thousands of ideas from our employees and from, from everywhere. It's like, Hey, we could use AI to solve
and filtering down and saying, okay, which of these will have a return on investment
quickly and at a level that sustains that that's worth kind of going and investing
in the infrastructure and and, uh, the software and kind of making that happen. Is that unusual? If I talked to you 25 years ago
and said, do you have a problem of too many good ideas or too few? What would you have said? Um, in this specific area, probably
too few because at some point you reach diminishing return. So, for example, let's use
this exact same example. Can those 13, 000 technicians go faster? Can they spend less time
driving to the site? I mean, there's only so much you
can kind of do on those things. But if you can get them an answer
to the problem and maybe even avoid them having to visit at all because
the client helped themselves. That's a step function. So this, that's why people
are kind of talking about. There's a, there's a business revolution
coming with AI where there's some step function changes that can be there. And notice I didn't say I'm going
to have less of those agents. That's not my objective. My objective. And I think that's the fear in
the industry about AI is going to eliminate all the jobs. No, I just created 13,000 super
powered agents that can do more. Right? And so I'm not just going
to support IBM products. I'm going to go out and support
other people's products because I know how to do that really well. And once I have the data on how
to fix their problems, I may just have a customer support business
that's independent of my boxes. So, you know, I think that's where people
sometimes get it wrong in the AI thing is, it's like, you know, did, did word
processing eliminate the need for writers? No, it enabled writing instead of
mucking around with mimeograph machines and clickety click typewriters. It may have enabled too much writing. Yeah, maybe, maybe. Wait, can I give you a hypothetical? I ask this because I ran. I was at some conference and I ran
to some guy from the IRS. He was really, really, really, really
excited about AI So let's suppose they call you up and they say… You're gonna talk, to ask me
when the IRS. calls me up I'm the commissioner of the IRS.
I call you up and I say, “Rick, uh, clearly there's something that we could
do for the IRS. if we work together.” Yeah.
What would your answer be? Of course. No, I think, we sell to a lot of
government agencies, as you can imagine in, in the business that we're in. We enable a lot of social security
transactions and things like that through our mainframes. And I think, you know, we're in the
business of helping whatever client get the most out of their data and
be able to secure it and and be able to do analytics with this. And IRS. has a heck of a lot of data. So yes, we would help them. Do you know how the amount of
data they have compares to some of the corporate clients you have? I don't know specifically for the
IRS. how much data they have, but I would assume it's a whole lot. It's mountains. But, but that's our business. I mean, it's interesting. Sometimes, people have asked what's
the most, you know, what is it that IBM has that's of great value? Is it a server? Is it a storage array? Is it, you know, software and all that? What we have is the most
important entities in the world have their data on our stuff. The most important data in the world. It's not, you know, You know,
pictures of your grandkids and things like that, generally for us. It's all of the financial transactions
that happen globally, right? It's all of the it's the world's economy
is kind of running through our systems. And so we take that really seriously. You know, you would be distraught if you
lost one photo on your laptop, whatever. But, you know, if we lose a
transaction, like somebody moves a big amount of money, and it's like,
well, don't know what happened there. It is a massive deal, right? So that doesn't happen. I wanna go back to my
IRS. example for a moment. Yes. So, one, is it reasonable to assume
that, uh, you could, that somebody, IBM or somebody else, could in a short
period of time put together, not just the AI capability to audit returns, but
also this, the infrastructure support for that in a reasonable amount of
time for a reasonable amount of cost? Or is it a, over, is it going to the moon? Or is it…. It definitely, I mean, So we're already
doing that kind of thing right across a network of, of banks and others. Yeah Essentially all credit card
transactions for all of the world go through our systems. So that in some ways is more volume
than the tax returns of the U.S. people and their you know, W2s and all that. Yeah, and we do that stuff, too. I try not to describe it
too much in detail, but we definitely do a lot of that. Um, in fact, I think, um, most,
if you think, okay, what is super critical data, who would be doing
the business transaction processing? It is most likely us, in almost all cases,
whether it's government things or, or private or banks or that kind of thing. That's what we do. Ric, we're gonna end with, uh,
the way we always end with a couple of quick fire questions. Okay. Here we go. Um, what single piece of advice
would you give to businesses trying to use AI in an effective way? The simple version is get started. By get started, I mean, think of what
is something that I want to improve. The things that we have traction on
right now in the market are around business process automation, digital
labor, uh, uh, those kinds of things. But my other little piece of advice
there is keep it simple to begin with. You're going to learn a lot,
but getting started means you'll start that learning curve. I even advise, you know, my friends
like, "Hey, should I be playing around with some of this AI stuff?" And I say,
yeah, because I think it will help you start to be more comfortable and you
may find a use case personally for that. I think the same is true for businesses. The first step in that journey is always. With what data? Notice when I talked about our
customer support people, I thought about, okay, what's the data? The data is all of those
logs, of all of those service engagements around the world. And what could I do with that? Well, I could use that to get to a
knowledge base that really helps. Um, and hopefully that I can do it in
multiple languages because it's global and I can, you know, all of those things. That was kind of my data set. That one's not super simple, but
we've had a lot of experience in AI. For other people that might just be:
How do I automate filling out travel expense reports for my company? We can help people that
we have consulting. We have watsonx tools. We can do that like this and we're doing
it globally for people around the world. Pick that thing. What's the data you have in that case? It's data of expense reports. And it's like, okay, we can help
you automate that for people where they could do it just by,
you know, a verbal interface. What did you spend? Where did you go? Who are you with? Okay, we filled out your
travel expense report for you. And you don't have to mess around with it. We were playing with this idea,
where we would pick a business. And go in there and do,
it would be AI makeover. Yeah, I love that idea. Okay, what's the, what is
the ideal business to do? We only have a couple months. We don't want to spend
a kajillion dollars. We want to be able to show tangibly
and quickly what AI can do. What's an ideal business to do that in? It can be a small business,
but we're not talking. This isn't a grand corporate thing here. Boy, small business that
we could do an AI makeover. Customer support is one of my favorites
because it's a, it's, it's, I have it on the business side where I provide
customer support, but I have it on the consumer side where it drives me nuts
when I have to go through 30 layers of phone menus and speak to an agent,
speak to an agent, speak to an agent. That for any business, I think is just
ripe to be able to kind of say, Why do I have to click through these menus message? I just need to tell you in human language. Here's the issue. And I'll be really good about telling
you details about, you know, I tried to set up this thing for my bank
and I did... They can go through all the menus, automate that process. I think it would change everything
because all that frustration as a consumer would go down dramatically. And it's all, you know, you know,
why are you making me the beep, boop, press one, press five, press four? They’ve offloaded. Exactly. Well, don't offload to me. Offload to AI. We can help you with that. Here's my version of that. Drives me crazy. Every morning, I go to the
same coffee shop, and I get a cup of tea and a croissant. And here's what happens. A person has their screen,
and they go, I go, cup of tea, croissant, sparkling water. Do, do, do, do, do like at
least 20 keystrokes, right? Yes, yes. And then like, then the screen is turned
around like at this point we're like 45 seconds in and I'm like, why is
this, first of all, it's not for me. All those keystrokes. Yes.
It's for their internal Yes, yes. Correct, correct. So they're burdening me in
order to service their backend. You should be able to walk in, go up
and they go, “Hi, Malcolm. Same thing?” Yeah.
And you just go, yes. And then… Boom, we're done. Can we do AI makeover of my coffee shop? You notice I quickly jumped more to
banks than your coffee shop because I think I'm a business person. I'm not trying to kind of do
a deal on one coffee shop. No, but this is interesting because
it takes me back to something you said that I thought was really important. When you were talking about, when you
were using AI in your customer service thing, it was clear that your goal, you
could have any number of goals going in. It could be to cut costs. It could be to dramatically
improves profits. Your goal quite specifically
was to improve the experience of your customer, right? So you were using it to that. All the other things come
from that come from that. And that is actually one of the
beautiful pillars of the IBM culture is delighting clients is actually
where all of the good stuff comes from. Always. So my coffee shop thing is
the same principle right now. Right now, they're making my customer
experience worse, and they don't want to, but their eyes are glued to the screen. At a moment when I walk in and
I want to say, “Hi, how are you doing?” We could have a conversation. They’re busy beeping and booping. They're too busy, beeping and booping. So like, this is the same thing. If they had their, Oh, we, this
is if they understood they had an opportunity to improve the
experience, their customer experience. I would not be surprised if a
chain comes along where that is their value proposition, I
would not be surprised at all. Right? So, I mean, and, and when
those things kind of catch hold, it becomes a revolution. You know, when, um, the guy comes to do
like to redo your roof and they put a sign out front like, you know, Joe's roofing. You guys could do the
same with my coffee shop. Put like “IBM Infrastructure was here.” Exactly. Um, in five years, the
mainframe will be dot dot dot. Going strong. Uh, the mainframe going strong
and with new capabilities, continuous new capabilities. I think when we announced
the last version, Z16, the latest version, I should say. And we said, “hey, there's AI processing
built into it.” This was before everybody was talking about that. I think a lot of people thought, “what's
that for?” And we did it specifically for traditional AI, fraud detection,
etc. This next version, not only do we have the traditional AI built in,
but we have optional cards that you can plug into it to allow you to do
large language models for the enhanced fraud detection cases that we talked
about where, you know, it's more than just what transactions were happening. So if you take that and say,
okay, the next generations. We have more transaction volume than
we've ever had in mainframes today. The business is growing. It's strong. We keep innovating. In five years it'll be going strong. But weren't people, you're
saying this in the context of. For years, people were
predicting, weren't they, that the mainframe was going to go away? Uh, there were pundits in the market
that said everything will go away. No one will ever have a box. It'll all be online. I think this is something I've
learned big time in my long career, you know, uh, in the IT industry is
don't believe everything you hear. So I went back for my, uh, master's
degree at Stanford after I had worked a while in, in, uh, as a hardware designer. And everybody told me, be sure
to do your master's in software. Hardware is dead. I went on to work for 30 plus years
in hardware and infrastructure, now software became important. And I'm glad I had that extra training
in software because it helped me in hardware, but hardware wasn't dead. Then I heard all infrastructure
will go into the cloud. There won't be any. That hasn't happened. It's not happening. Then I heard there will only be one cloud
because one of the players will dominate. There's not one cloud. So I think it's as humans, we
like to oversimplify and go. Oh, it's all going to be this. And kind of what I've learned is fit
for purpose matters in everything. It matters in size of infrastructure. It matters in the stack that goes
along with solving a specific use case. If you're willing to design something
that's the best at that use case. If you're willing to design the
coffee shop that is the best at greeting me, there's a spot for you. And there may be a big
business in doing that. So oversimplifying is really dangerous. When you heard all those predictions. Did you, did you believe them at the time? Uh, they looked like they were
trending in that direction. I'll tell you some right
now, which might be useful. There will only be one GPU
company, and they're gonna end up taking over the world. It's a pretty obvious answer whose
economic value has risen dramatically. I don't think that's gonna be the case. In fact, I think that 90
percent of processing for AI actually happens at inferencing. And inferencing is not as GPU and hardware
intensive as the other things, and is a lot more amenable to fit for purpose. So the model size will matter. The tuning matters a
lot as we're learning. We have a product around InstructLab
that's really focused on tuning. So that was one thing
is there'll be one GPU. The other thing is, that the biggest model
will win, I think, is another thing that's kind of, people are saying right now. I don't believe that. I believe there will be
fit for purpose models. It takes a lot of money to run
a, to create a huge model, and then to run a huge model, or to
even infer off of a huge model. I don't need a massive training
GPU set thing to solve my 13, 000 people customer support issue. So why would I feel like I gotta go
farm that out for a big expensive thing? I can do that on a small box. In some cases, I might even be
able to do that on a laptop. The other thing I'll say in this
we're so early innings in AI, a lot of things are going to change. So anybody kind of saying it will all
be X, Y or Z. I just think you have no idea how this is going to play out. And and it's up to us to go
figure out how it plays out. Yeah, yeah. Allright. In five years, AI will be dot dot dot Still new. it will have moved a bunch in five years. But the potential for the disruption
in the world will still, will still be very early innings in that process. And I think that's super
important to realize. That's why I say get started. Start thinking about how that
could change, because it will be some little things first, but
it will continue to snowball. There's always this is a common
observation that we, the invention of the capability, uh, massively predates the
understanding of the capability, right? Like I love that. Yes. Yeah, like recording shows on
television is invented in the sixties. Probably the VCR. We don't really understand what
it's used for until the oughts. What it’s really good for is being
able to tell a story sequentially Yes. …over time, because you know
that the person will all have seen the episode before. Yes.
So you get The Sopranos and… Yes. Yes. Hollywood wanted to ban
the VCR in the beginning. Because they thought the point of it…
Yes. They thought piracy. They didn't understand. No, no, no. It's storytelling. It's actually your
business is getting better. Yes, yes. Took them 20 years to figure
that out, which is to your point. Why would we know what
AI was for in five years? Well, that's why you hear people
kind of say, “Oh my gosh, AI, that's, that will just eliminate
jobs.” No, it'll make jobs better. That's how I view it. What's the number one thing that
people misunderstand about AI? Is that it? I think that's that that would be the
human kind of understanding part of it. The technology part of it, I think,
would be what I was talking about fit for purpose, meaning, um, that it
isn't just going to be a GPU arms race. All of AI. I don't believe that at all. It will change everything, but it's
not just going to be a GPU arms race. Yeah, uh, next question. What advice would you give yourself 10
years ago to better prepare you for today? I'm changing this question. Okay. I want to say, let's imagine
that, uh, what was your, what, what college did you go to? I went to three of them. My undergrad was Utah State University. My MBA was Santa Clara University and my
master's in EE was Stanford University. Okay. Any one of those three calls you up
and says, we want you to give the commencement address and imagine
that it's, it's, it's just, let's just say for the sake of argument,
it's just to the STEM people because those are the relevant parties here. What do you tell them? Boy, what do I tell them? Uh, let's see. I think I would start with
life is a marathon, not a sprint would be the first one. Uh, the second thing I would say to that,
in that spirit is, um, be sure to set yourself some big, hairy, audacious goals. And don't be overly disappointed
if you don't hit them all. Going after those big, hairy,
audacious goals will get you on a path where you will learn so much. You will achieve more than you ever
could imagine you would have achieved. That's what the advice I give to my kids
is set some big goals, get after it. You may or may not achieve them,
but you'll be better for the whole process when you're done. By the way, as someone whose kids are a
lot younger than yours, is it actually useful to give advice to your kids? Or is that just a pointless exercise? TBD. We're still on the journey, and I
think we will be for a long time. I don't know. How are you already using AI
in your day to day life today? Uh, personally, I would say, it's
replacing a good chunk of my search. You know, I'm less likely to go
blindly stumbling through a bunch of web pages looking for stuff. I'm more likely to ask a question
from a few AI engines, kind of see, get me in the right direction. Then I'll go bumble through a few things. At work, I can tell you code
development right now, um, we are seeing massive improvements in code
development and support products. We have like watson code assistant. That is really showing immediate
return for our code developers. And I think that'll, that will again, be a
tool that increases productivity for code developers immediately across the globe. Yeah, um, last question. What's the one skill that every
technology leader needs that has nothing to do with technology? Being able to inspire a set
of people toward a common goal and collaborate to achieve it. That's at the core of everything. Everything. That's a lovely way to end. Thank you so much, Ric. Thank you.