What is a cloud shell, and how can a cloud 
shell enable rapid cloud resource management and   development from anywhere? I'm Nathan Heckman from 
IBM Cloud and I'm going to answer that today. So,   let's say you just finished 
developing an exciting new app   and you decide to go on a 
well-earned vacation. So, this is you and you're sitting on a beach enjoying yourself 
when all of a sudden you get a call from your boss   and they're not happy because that 
application just went down in production.   So what do you do? You don't have your work 
computer with you on the beach. Enter cloud shell.   You log into one of the hotel computers, you 
open up a web browser, and with cloud shell   you're able to fix the app in no time at all. So 
that you can go back to enjoying your vacation   and your boss is happy. So let's compare 
some of the benefits of cloud shell   with working with your local 
machine. In a shell, so   with your local machine there's some limitations, 
right. So first of all, inherently you're going   to use more resources on your CPU and memory, 
it's just more resource intensive because it's   actually on your machine. You also need to worry 
about installing software and updating software   and tools. This can be annoying, right. Everyone's 
been there where you're constantly prompted for   updates and you need to keep things to the 
latest version in order to keep them working.   And finally if you're working with a cloud 
provider you're always getting logged out   so you have to manage your authentication, 
your tokens, etc. Well with cloud shell   it's a consistent environment. What does this mean? So first of all, all of 
your cloud authentication is taken care of.   So you're securely authenticated to your 
cloud provider without doing anything. Also, you don't need to worry about 
installing tools, everything is already   installed and ready to go. And finally, maybe 
most helpful, is there's no need to update.   So everything's on the latest version and 
you can get started and get right to work. Another benefit of cloud shell is 
that you can manage your cloud. So, what can you manage? Well 
your resources and infrastructure. You can manage your applications and you can 
view logs. So, if you're sitting on a beach   open up a cloud shell you can check the status 
of your applications and get it back to working.   A final benefit of cloud shell is that 
it's a cloud based dev environment. So what does this mean for you? Cloud 
shells include all the tools that you   need to be productive as a developer. So, 
tools like git for source control management. Cloud shells typically include 
several languages as well.   So say you are a node developer, you 
can use node right within a cloud shell.   And finally, cloud shells typically include an 
editor. So everyone uses or knows of vim or nano.   So you can actually edit files and scripts and 
code right within your cloud shell environment.   Great. So now let's step back a bit 
and talk about what is a cloud shell,   what are some of the building 
blocks of a cloud shell. So, first of all, at the base of what runs 
cloud shell is a run time, or VM. This is what powers 
cloud shell at the lowest level. Next is storage. So, cloud shells may have 
either persisted or temporary storage.   Persisted meaning as you go from session 
to session, maybe you log out log back in,   you'll get your same environment and same storage. 
Temporary, obviously. It's temporary, so the   storage will be removed after some time. 
And finally you have the cloud shell image. And this is what you interact with, right. So, 
this could be some bash based shell. It includes   your tools and languages. So, this is what you 
actually interact with on a cloud shell. Now of   course all of this you access from a web browser. 
So, it's super convenient and always available.   Something to note too about cloud 
shells is that they can either be managed by you the user. And that means that you actually will provide 
the runtime, storage, and image. So you can   configure that exactly how you want it, or a 
cloud shell can be managed by the cloud vendor. So what that means is they set up everything 
for you, right. There's some benefits of both   with the cloud vendor managed cloud 
shell, everything's already ready to go   and cloud shell runtime, storage, image, they 
already curate the tools and languages that   are included and can be really convenient. 
User managed can also have some benefits too.   Maybe there's some security 
requirements from your enterprise   about where storage needs to be located, so 
you can actually configure that yourself.   You can also configure exactly which tools and 
languages you want to start up with cloud shell.   Great. So there's a few other features that cloud 
shells could include. First one is web preview.   What this is it essentially allows 
you to preview a port on cloud shell   similarly to how you do on your local 
machine. So maybe port 3000 or port   8080 when you're doing local development you 
get that same experience but on the cloud. The next feature of a cloud shell is, that it 
may or may not have, is a GUI based editor. Now pretty self-explanatory, 
this is rather than a text editor   like a Vim or Nano, it's actually a GUI where 
you can go in and edit files or scripts,   it may even have a debugger. It can be very 
useful when you're developing with cloud shell. And finally, cloud shells could have file upload or download. So, also pretty 
self-explanatory, it allows you to actually   upload files from your local computer to 
the cloud shell environment, so that if   you go to somewhere else some other computer or 
workstation you can see those same files there.   It is also for file download, you can 
take files or scripts from cloud shell   environment down to your local machine and 
continue development there if you so choose.   So that's what cloud shell is and those are some 
of the benefits. As you can see cloud shell is a   powerful consistent environment, it's your own 
personal workspace on the cloud. Thank you.   If you have questions please drop us a line 
below. If you want to see more videos like   this in the future, please like and subscribe. 
And don't forget, you can grow your skills and   earn a badge with IBM CloudLabs which are free 
browser-based, interactive Kubernetes labs.