The acronym ERP stands for Enterprise Resource 
Planning. An ERP system is a core enterprise   software and solution stack comprised of a 
central database surrounded by multiple plug-in   services and software packages, each of which is 
tailored to solve specific enterprise problems   and address specific challenges. At the core 
of all ERP solutions is a master database.   This database houses all the records that a 
company uses within all of its ERP solutions.   These records can be financial, like invoices and 
purchase orders. They can be related to payments,   like accounts payable and payroll and taxes. 
They can be related to inventory status so that   a company knows what its supply lines are and how 
many of all finished goods are available in every   warehouse. That core database also stores all 
of the sales data, what customers have ordered,   what products as well as details and specifics on 
the internal processes to get that product from   the warehouse to the customer. But simply 
storing the data by itself isn't useful.   The importance of an ERP system is to take all 
the data that a company collects and use it   and integrate it so that that company can find 
ways to increase efficiency and save on costs.   This is why there's always a data analytics piece 
that wraps around the entirety of that core ERP,   database. This analytics engine is busy as it's 
constantly creating reports on regular schedules   and updating the tables themselves. But it also 
has to have the ability to provide data to users   on an ad hoc basis whenever a user has a specific 
query that they need more information from. So for   all that data to flow correctly into the database 
and for the core functions of the ERP system to   work correctly. Let's talk about the most commonly 
implemented modules that you'll find within an ERP   system. So that first module, that's going to be 
your sales module, that is all of your sales data,   your order data, your customer data, so what 
customers buying, what things, where it's going,   shipping, tracking all of the PO information on 
how it's getting paid for. In the payment status   you've got to track all of that sales data, 
but in order to make sales happen you've   got to have product. In order to have product 
that means that you've got to have procurement.   So, for procurement you've got to go out there, 
you've got to track what materials am I buying,   who am I buying them from, where are they 
coming from, am I getting the best deal,   am I doing all of the things that I need to do 
to acquire what I need to make my product. But   procurement goes so much further than that, it's 
not just what does it take to make your product,   it's also “are you procuring what you need in 
order for your employees to keep up and running?   Are you buying things as complex 
as servers to go into a data farm,   and as simple as packages of ballpoint pens 
so that people have something to sign with?”.   All of those pieces go into that procurement 
area. And then in addition to the procurement,   you've got to have your production systems, 
right. Production is incredibly important   because you have to track that production from the 
very beginning with your raw materials to the very   end with your finished product. And production is 
going to track everything in between, it's going   to do the planning, the capacity management, 
the maintenance, the materials management,   being sure that the right things are being 
staged at the right place at the right time   particularly as we've moved into this 
just in time manufacturing process   everywhere in the world so that we get as much 
efficiency in our manufacturing process as we can.   And so, after we finish that procurement, we might 
have a distribution module, that module is going   to be concerned with how do we get our finished 
products from point A to the customer's door,   or just from point A to the loading dock door. 
So that distribution model that's going to be   warehouse processes and staging goods, and 
movement of finished goods, logistics control,   inventory control, stock levels trigger 
levels all of those things that are necessary   from a logistics perspective because every 
business runs with that logistics trail.   And so, your distribution modules have to keep 
track of all of that. They've got to run all   of it for you or you're just going to run into 
inefficiencies. And then related to manufacturing,   and still very important, you've got your asset 
pieces, right. So, you've got your assets and you   have to track them. These are fixed assets, 
capital assets, you have to know everything   about them. Not just the procedural information, 
what do you have, who made it, how does it work,   what's its status, does it have any maintenance 
coming up, is it still under a service contract,   those things are important. Don't get me wrong, 
but your finance department is going to insist   that you also have all of that finance related 
data, what's the valuation of your asset,   what's its depreciation status, what is it is its 
expected useful life, should they be planning on   a capital expenditure in order to replace it in a 
certain number of years. Tracking all of that is   key to the asset. Part because, again, this fits 
in holistically and so all of these services,   these are all the back office ones. Back office 
is important, but also important is front office,   and this is the point where we should cut back 
to me doing this very nice scripted speech.   So, let's talk about these front office customer 
facing or customer touching solutions, things like   customer relationship management, software, right. 
That's your CRM piece. Why does CRM matter? Well   CRM matters because that's everything to do 
with your relationship to that customer. It's   customer information, sales history, it's incoming 
leads on people who are potentially interested in   buying your products, it's opportunity from 
first identification to opportunity close,   it's all of your sales tracking data and your 
pipeline information that you report out on.   All of that goes into that CRM system. That data 
is essential to knowing the status of your company   and knowing what your revenue is going to be 
as you track all of those opportunities from   open to close. And then in addition to your 
CRM suite, you've also got your HCM suite,   right. Human capital management, or HR software, 
there's lots of different names for it,   but the same general idea how are you going out 
and sourcing new employees, how are you retaining   the ones that you already have, how are you being 
sure that everybody is being judged appropriately,   that annual reviews are going well, that all of 
the back end processes necessary to onboard and   hire and maintain and pay your employees happen. 
All of that goes into that HCM suite. And while   that might not necessarily be part of your ERP 
system it certainly falls within the umbrella   the larger category of what ERP is. And so, 
while it might be a tightly coupled system,   it might also be integrated in. It really 
just depends on which one you've picked.   And then also another tightly coupled system 
that may or may not be part of the ERP suite   is your accounting system. Now some 
companies obviously choose to put their ERP   and their accounting software together, 
some of them choose to break it apart,   but that accounting piece that is always going 
to be core because the data from the accounting   piece is going to feed back into everything else 
that you're doing. Likewise, you're going to have   finance modules these are the ones that are more 
tightly coupled and probably built into the ERP   that are going to track all of those 
things like your company investments,   company’s financial status, it's going to ingest 
all of that data we talked about before with your   assets and things like that. And it's going 
to track the financial health of your company   at a very high level. And that high level is 
probably the most important part of your ERP   system because everything that we've talked 
about, everything on this wheel right now,   this is about running the business from a very 
operational level. But the next step is not just   the operations piece it's the governance piece. 
So we're going to remove this database and we're   going to remove these analytics engines, and we're 
going to put governance right here in the middle   because every module that we have, every one 
of these modules has to feed that data into the   holistic governance picture because executives 
at the boardroom level, or one step down from   the boardroom level, these executives are going 
to make the decisions that they have to make   about the future of the company. These are the 
strategic level decisions based on inputs from   all of the modules within your ERP system. It's 
how you look at the company health holistically,   and that's very different because it's a roll up 
of all of the data from all of the modules that   are in that, that are feeding into that database. 
And so, as we bring all of this data in we create   this roll-up reporting, we create this summary 
reporting, we put that into dashboards, right,   so that companies can go out and the C-suite can 
look at a dashboard every morning that's going to   show them the holistic health of the company from 
every factory they had, every location they have,   every distribution point, what's going on 
with shipping, what's going on with retail,   what's going on with procurement, all of that data 
feeds into the ERP, and it gives the executives   involved the ability to do those strategic 
level decisions. It's incredibly important,   all in all. Hopefully I've given you a good 
overview of what an ERP system is and why it's so   critical to the successful operation of any modern 
company. Your ERP system is always going to be   core to your daily operation and because of that 
selecting the right cloud provider for running   your ERP system is also critical. Your business is 
24/7, 365, and so must be the cloud on which you   run it. So if you'd like to talk more about how 
to implement a new ERP system from the ground up,   or how to transition your existing ERP system into 
a modern one, you can learn more at ibm.com cloud   SAP, or you can reach out to your IBM 
Sales team, or your IBM Business Partner   and we'd love to engage with you on how to improve 
your whole company by improving your ERP system.