Have you ever interacted with a chatbot that can't 
seem to figure out what you need and responds with   "I'm sorry I don't understand. Please try again." 
Yeah, we've all been there with a rules-based   chatbot, when a simple task of ordering something 
turns into a headache. Are rules-based chatbots   obsolete? No! But let's look at three different 
kinds of chatbots with various degrees of   sophistication: the rules-based, AI-powered, and 
generative AI. Which is the right kind for your   company? The answer is "it depends".
Let's look at our first example,   the limited rules-based chatbot, which walks 
the customer through a rigid, predetermined   flow and operates on basic keyword detection.
[chatbot] Thanks for choosing Taste of Italy.   Our pizzas are yummy! How many 
pizzas would you like to order?  [Bella] Two.
[chatbot] What size would you like   them to be? Small, medium, or large.
[Bella] Large.  As you can see, there's not much AI 
involved in this interaction. Of course,   placing an order is not always so straightforward. 
Because it's impossible for the conversation   designer to predict and pre-program the chatbot 
for all the ways a person can place an order,   this kind of chatbots often get stuck. [Bella] My pizza is cold! I want to file a   complaint and get my money back!
[chatbot] Sorry, I don't understand,   try rephrasing your message.
Also, if the customer has a   complaint about the order, the chatbot 
could act as a gatekeeper. This is a sure   way to send customers to competition. 
Let's start the conversation again,   this time with an AI-powered chatbot!
[Bella] I want to order two large   pepperoni and cheese pizzas.
[chatbot] Great choice,   Bella! Would you like any extra toppings?
[Bella] No, just the regular, thanks! Add   one apple juice and one beer to the order.
With AI and natural language understanding [NLU]   capabilities, the chatbot can understand the 
customer's request, the first time—no matter   how it's phrased. With deep learning, the longer 
an AI chatbot has been in operation, the better   it can understand the intention behind questions 
and provide more detailed, accurate responses.  Let's continue:
[chatbot] We have a new offer – order   1 pizza and 1 dessert, and get a drink for free. 
Would you like to take advantage of this?  [Bella] Of course, who doesn't like dessert?
[chatbot] Where would you like this order to   be delivered?
[Bella] Home  [chatbot] Confirming 2 promotional packages.  Delivery in 45 minutes. Enjoy dinner, Bella!  Deeply integrated with the business systems, the 
chatbot knows the customer's name and address,   presents the latest offers 
that might be of interest,   and creates a smooth ordering process.
[Bella] My pizza is cold! I want to file   a complaint and get my money back!
[chatbot] I am sorry to hear that. I   am transferring you to a live 
agent who can help you now.  When the customer is unhappy and wants to speak 
to a human, the transfer should happen seamlessly.   After being transferred, the live support agent 
will get the chatbot conversation history and can   start the call informed. But what would this 
look like with a generative AI chatbot? Would   the customer want to read a 
chatbot-generated poem about   pizza when placing an order?
[Bella] I want to order   two large pepperoni and cheese pizzas.
[chatbot] In this vibrant city's culinary scene,   lies a pizza divine, a flavor supreme. 
Would you like to order a pizza today?  Hmm, that's certainly added personality, but 
probably not all that helpful in this case.   Ok, let's start over. How can generative 
AI elevate the customer's experience?  [Bella] Today I'm celebrating my 
college graduation! I want to order   two large pepperoni and cheese pizzas.
[chatbot] Nice to see you again Bella,   and congratulations! No party meal is complete 
without something sweet! We have the most   delicious tiramisu cake and a new offer – order 1 
pizza and 1 dessert, and get a drink for free. Would   you like to take advantage of this?
[Bella] You bet!  The next generation of generative AI chatbots can 
get even smarter and more fluent in understanding   common language, adapting to the customer's style 
of conversation, and using empathy when answering.   You can optimize the chatbot response even further 
using generative AI capabilities for search.  Let's see how:
[Bella] I have   an allergy to peanuts. Can you confirm that 
this dessert does not contain any peanuts?  [chatbot] This tiramisu does not contain 
any ingredients with peanuts. I searched   my knowledge base. You can expand to see 
all the ingredients and what they contain.  Chatbots with conversational search capabilities 
can give you answers to the questions you're   looking for, while showing you the source if 
you want to validate the chatbot's response.   So, do chatbots need AI? Well, yes, it does make 
chatbots smarter. They can better understand   intent and respond more accurately to questions 
by learning from its previous interactions,   improving customer experiences. When thinking 
about generative AI's impact on chatbots,   think about how you can take advantage of 
creative, conversational responses and when this   technology makes the most sense for your business 
objectives and the needs of your customers. Thanks again for watching. Head to watsonx Assistant to learn more about how to
leverage AI chatbots in your business.