- [Auto-Attendant] All
of our representatives are currently busy.
Please stay on the line and your call will be answered by the next available representative. Today's customer hates
to wait for service. When I call up a brand
or a service provider, I expect to get my
questions answered quickly and to my satisfaction. In the world of customer service, the challenge is to stay a step ahead of customer expectations and ensure that every brand interaction is not just positive, but
delightful for the customer. My name is Manish Goyal and I'm a Senior Partner
in IBM Consulting, leading our AI analytics
business globally. The goal of my team is to help our clients apply AI analytics and
automation to create insights that drive better decisions. And one of the areas I
spend a lot of time in is advising clients on how
AI analytics can help deliver delightful customer experiences. This could be through
self-service experiences or through aiding human agents with tools and insights
so that they can deliver a great experience to the customer. Now, enterprises spend billions of dollars on customer service every year. Good customer service can turn one-time clients into
long-term brand champions. And the lifetime value of an NPS promoter can be 10 times more
than an NPS detractor. On the other hand, around
80% of consumers say they would rather do
business with a competitor after more than one bad
experience with a brand. The contact center, the hub of most customer
service operations, has come a long way in the
past couple of decades. Tools such as interactive
voice response (IVR), agent assist, robotic process
automation and chat bots have already made customer
service agents more productive. However, at most enterprises,
the use of these technologies is fragmented instead of seamless. At the same time, customer expectations continue
to be more and more demanding these days, especially
coming out of the pandemic. Customers expect seamless
access and speedy resolution to their queries across
digital and voice channels. This in turn puts pressure on businesses to deliver a frictionless
customer experience at every stage, from
discovery to purchase, through service and retention. Now with generative AI, this experience can be
taken to the next level. Large language models have the
power to significantly expand what can be automated, performing critical customer service tasks that are far beyond the capacities
of earlier technologies. These models are trained
on vast amounts of data and can recognize, classify, and create sophisticated text and speech
with speed and precision. To see how generative AI can significantly
improve customer service, let's look at three key areas. The first is self-service, wherein you give the tools to
customers to serve themselves. Virtual agents or chatbots
serve the purpose here. And over the years, they
have become very good at being able to direct customers down a predetermined journey. To make these journeys, you first analyze what
people are asking about, you understand their intent and then handcraft the dialogue flows to direct them down the right journeys. In the past, creating
these flows took time, but now with generative AI, you can deliver much richer
self-service experiences. These experiences are more
natural and conversational. They're more resilient to
variations and digressions, and the tooling to create these flows is also now being augmented
with generative AI, so that the process area
and domain area experts can describe the journeys
in natural language and AI generates the
necessary underlying flows. The second area, where generative AI can
significantly improve customer experience is by
augmenting the human agent, whether in the contact
center or in the field. A lot of time is spent by
agents in the contact center searching knowledge bases to resolve the queries for customers. Generative AI can dramatically
improve the retrieval of this information
from the knowledge bases and present it back to
agents in a summarized way, to help resolve the
customer query quickly. This cuts down the time that
the customer is on hold, improving their experience, while also allowing the
agent to handle more calls during their shift. Similarly, field service
agents can be armed with generative AI based solutions that help them troubleshoot
problems in the field faster and more accurately. Another good example is helping agents draft email
responses automatically, based on the context or query, allowing them to review and edit before responding to the customer. AI augmented emails have shown to have a higher
satisfaction score by customers. And the third area is in
contact center operations. Let's say you have a
call center of a thousand or maybe ten thousand agents. Gaining insights into what's happening across all the conversations taking place between agents and customers was difficult or expensive before. With generative AI, you can
go through the transcripts of every call made and
continuously gather insights on how and why agents
are taking a long time to handle certain types of calls, or understanding granular
classification of complaints on products or services. This insight that a application
of generative AI provides can allow your operations
leaders to find the root cause of a problem faster and resolve them, if in the servicing function, or alert the product or marketing teams, if they need to take remedial action. There's also a lot of time spent by agents, after each call with a customer, documenting a summary
of their conversations and actions taken. During that after call work time, they're unavailable to attend a new call. Again, with generative AI, you can transcribe in real time the conversation that they're having and generate a draft of the summary that agents can then edit and
feed back into the CRM system. Not only does this drive consistency in capturing details of each
conversation with customers, but it also saves time
and drives productivity for the agents. Today, as the cost of building
these solution comes down with foundation models and
the ROI becomes justifiable, there's a renewed focus on the ways generative AI can
be used for customer service. And it's not difficult to imagine why! Customer service has always been complex. Just think of the last time you called in for customer service. Chances are you wanted to
address a problem you were facing with a purchase or a product
or a service you have; and if you have a problem,
you are generally unhappy, which is why enabling service
journeys that anticipate and deliver delightful
omnichannel experiences, whether as a self-service function or a human assisted one is critical. Secondly, in some companies,
there are a lot of employees who can influence the
experience customers have with the brand or service. If you can augment their skills and drive productivity
across this large population who front your brand, it'll be a huge win for your enterprise. And given the capabilities of AI and the rate at which it is evolving, you can expect significant
gains in productivity with the right deployment. And there's more! As businesses focus on building
omnichannel experiences for their customers, AI can power interactions
or conversations irrespective of the channel
customers come in from. Which means a customer request that originated in one channel can be completed in another
channel, seamlessly. Combining traditional
AI with generative AI enterprises can drive proactive outreach, helping avoid problems or
help resolve them faster. If you were to look closely
at how these companies achieve high levels of coordination
amongst their channels, you will discover a five step
approach driving the execution. The first step, as you kick
off, is to have a clear idea of the experience you want to deliver. Next is to understand your customers well. What is the demographic,
preferences, digital or voice? And now that you know your
audience, you need to determine how you want to serve them, decide what channels you
want to direct them to. And then, look at the best tools that can support those channels. So what is your platform? Do you go with the cloud-based
contact center solution? Will it be on-premises for
other reasons, or something else? Once you have your tool chain sorted, the final step is to design
the journey end-to-end, so it delivers on the service strategy, the experience you had
defined when you started. My favorite story, and
it really warms my heart whenever I speak of this, is the work that we have been doing with the US Veterans Affairs since 2019. Before we came in, it used
to take a really long time for veterans to get their benefits. We applied analytics and automation to help support faster claim creation and response to veterans. Just a few numbers: 3 million
packets processed end-to-end, and these packets have
lots of documents in them. 280 different document types, 24 distinct mail type processes, 100% automation of all mail intake. We are processing 220,000
documents per week. We then took that process further, by applying sophisticated AI
to analyze the medical records. We are now helping the claims adjudicator make decisions faster, so that the veterans who
fought for our country get the help they need
without the long wait. And since 2023, we have
processed over 125,000 claims. We have been expecting AI
to make a big difference for quite some time now. And I think the capabilities have finally caught up with the hype. What's more, the innovation
rate has also accelerated dramatically, with a new
announcement almost every week. It is becoming increasingly evident now that the faster you add the capabilities of generative AI to your organization, the sooner you can make use
of the unlimited opportunities it opens up. Imagine the next time your
customer runs into a problem and needs help: You'll
have all the capabilities to turn a possibly adverse situation into a positive experience,
without making them wait, and perhaps, even before
they pick up the phone. So the question for enterprises looking to fold AI into
their customer service is no longer, "Why?" But "When?"