As your applications grow in complexity
how do you harness and drive new insights from all the chaos? And is
observability just a buzzword, or is it something that you actually need to
think about? Spoiler alert, it is. My name is Sai Vennam and I'm with the IBM Cloud
team, and today I'm joined with a special guest. Hi there, I'm Laura Santamaría and
I am a Developer Advocate with LogDNA. If you don't know LogDNA is a core part
of our observability story on IBM Cloud, but today we're gonna be talking about
observability, so let's start with definition. So observability is a
property of your systems that helps you understand what's going on with them,
monitor what they're doing, and be able to get the information you need to
troubleshoot. So the way we see it there's three major tears of
observability and let's go through those now. We're gonna start out with my favorite
which is logging. In addition to logging we additionally have metrics, so that's
just all of your analytics around all of the data that you're gathering and
finally...we've got monitoring. Now monitoring is essentially putting up a
magnifying glass to your systems and getting new insights from what's
actually running there. Today we're gonna be starting with an example, in the
bottom left corner we have sketched out a few of the different infrastructure
pieces so we'll start with today. Can we explain what those are? Sure, we have a
public cloud, it can be any of them. And then you have on-prem, and then let's say we
actually have some user data, maybe this is a tablet or a cell phone. So all of
those infrastructure pieces are creating and generating data and what I'm kind of
gonna focus on here is the personas that are going to consume them. So we've got
that Dev persona, we've got Ops, and finally we have Security. So, all of
this data flowing in is kind of a lot, I want to have some way of filtering it
down for my specific user personas to be able to understand it. So let's start
with developers, what do developers care about? I actually
want to back up here for a moment though because let's talk about all the
different levels that logging can come from. So we have three different levels
that we can think about so you have your Operating System, you have Kubernetes or
any other type of platform, so I'm picking kubernetes. That's my favorite. And
then finally your application. So your operating system and kubernetes all send
really good logs and you can use a lot of that data pretty much as this, or add
in some of your own but applications is really where you need to spend some time.
So you're devs need to create a proper event stream and this really goes by the
garbage in, garbage out system where you really need to put in good work and get
some good data on the side of the application so that you get good logs
out. Right, exactly, so the great developers out there on kubernetes and
the operating Systems they've instrumented their platforms but the
application that's up to you as a developer to make sure the
instrumentation is in place. Absolutely, and when you think about it, let's say
that we have an operating system here and I'm gonna say that's an operating
system, and then we have kubernetes running on it. And then you actually have
your app running on top of kubernetes. And all of these are to each sending
data. So we have three different levels of data all coming out and trying to
come towards the dev that wants some information. Right, so it looks like
they're all coming into this central area here. That's right. We can talk about
this is our aggregator. So our aggregator takes in all of this
data and puts it all into one place so we can work with it. That's right, but
kind of coming back to the the problem here a
developer might not care about all of the information flowing in, how do we
drive just the pieces that they care about like we mentioned? Maybe they
instrumented their specific application, how do we drive that to them? Absolutely,
so an aggregator often has filters. So in this case let's say the dev is just
asking for data about debugging and just some information there, and your data,
your filter can actually set up a dashboard or some other way of accessing
all of that data that the dev can take a look at just the pieces that they need.
That's a core part of a observability solution, this aggregator not only does
it collect the data but it needs to externalize it, expose it, so my
developers can access it and drive new insights. So let's say we solved that
part of the puzzle, what do operators care about? What are
the operations teams? What are they looking for out of these systems? So an
operations team might need to know more about degradation of its system, or if a
pod is falling over,  maybe your database filled up and you need to know more
information about how you can fix it. The ops teams is going to be getting
data from all of these different systems and filtering it out to yet another
dashboard or another interface of some sort and getting that data just what
they need. Right, so potentially they may not care as much about specific
application level logs but they'll be looking to kubernetes to say hey what
was the CPU usage, do we need to set up some horizontal pod auto scalers to make
sure that we don't hit those limits. Finally, kind of probably see where I'm
going here with the last piece of the puzzle with security, they probably have
a dashboard that's created for them as well. So a security team let's say
they're using a third-party tool as most security teams generally, do they
identify a threat ID, or maybe a customer ID and they want to dive in deeper to a
potential threat that's been identified. So they put that information in the
aggregator and they can identify and make kind of sense of all the chaos to
identify exactly what that specific security analyst might be looking for.
But I want to pose an interesting question here, it's not always about
going to the system and identifying what's there,
many times security advisors need to know what's happening the second it
happens and they can't just sit there and stare at logs all day, right.
Absolutely, this is where monitoring comes in, this is really a two-way street.
We have automated alerts that can go out and tell all of these different groups
about specific things that they're interested in, specific events that they
want to know about. So let's say that you have a system that's been accessed and
it's not supposed to be frankly that system is going to figure it out long
before a human is and that's what an alert is for an ops team doesn't want to
find out that there's a degradation of service when their user does, they need
to know ahead of time. So a good observability solution should have the
ability to externalize the data and then additionally set up a learning on top of
that. So our dev team may be their most comfortable in Slack, so they set up a
chat bot so that particular exceptions when they're thrown they're able to know
when they happen. Your ops team may be they were using something like a paging
system so that you know in the middle of the night if something goes down they
get alert and they can start looking into it right away. And then finally for
our security teams, kind of as I mentioned, they're generally using you
know maybe third party tools or custom dashboards they can set up custom
alerting so they can know exactly when something goes down. And to be honest
this is your new norm, you're going to have multiple clouds, you're going to
have on-premise systems, you're going to have data coming directly in from your
users. You need to be able to understand what's going on and really this is what
observability is all about. Thanks for joining us for this quick overview of
observability, also thank you so much for joining us today Laura. Absolutely, my
pleasure. If you have any questions please drop us a line below. If you want
to see more videos like this in the future, please like and subscribe. And
don't forget you can always get started on the cloud at no cost by signing up
for a free IBM Cloud account.