Hi, I'm Alex Greer with the IBM Cloud team. 
Today I want to talk aboutIBM Cloud Secrets   Manager. But, before I get into it, don't 
forget to hit that "Subscribe" button!   As enterprises build more microservices and become 
globally distributed, securing your application   secret data becomes much more complex. As we saw 
before in my previous video, secrets management   services enable the secure management of digital 
credentials that ultimately allow entities   to securely interact with services.IBM Cloud 
Secrets Manager is a service based on open-source   HashiCorp Vault designed to securely manage 
the lifecycle of Secrets, such as IAM API Keys,   User credentials, or different forms of arbitrary 
text. This allows IT security leaders to dream big   about their cloud native application future 
without being concerned about data breaches   from mismanaged credentials, or losing velocity in 
their developer operations while securing secrets.   Secrets Manager centralizes the experience 
of generating, storing, rotating, and revoking   multiple types of secrets from a single pane 
of glass. Integrations with other services such   as your private catalogs in IBM Cloud enables 
the retrieval of your secrets in-context when   you need them, streamlining your workflows.  
Through leasing, it even allows for you to give   an application or a team member temporary access 
to a service to complete their respective task.   As a managed service, Secrets Manager offers much 
of the same benefit of an on-premise deployment of   Vault without the hassle of having to maintain its 
tricky operators, or manage and ultimately operate   its underlying infrastructure. This allows you 
to keep your desired security posture at scale,   while we take care of the rest. A critical element 
of Secrets Manager that makes it’s so powerful   is its unique trust model. Built for enterprises 
that have very little tolerance for any sort of   data vulnerabilities but need the velocity 
provided by the cloud.  This model starts by   allowing you to seal your vault and encrypt all of 
your hosted secrets with your own root encryption   key. For example — one of your existing 
FIPS compliant keys from IBM Key Protect,   giving you ownership of your data. Next, your data 
is protected in transit through TLS — Your vault   as well as the UI and APIs you use to interact 
with it are all single-tenant. Meaning, your   data is isolated in your own dedicated silo and 
doesn’t rely on any shared components. And…should   you decide to delete your instance you have the 
peace of mind that your data is cryptographically   deleted. Thanks for listening to this introduction 
of IBM Cloud Secrets Manager. To get started   with improving the security of your secrets 
come check us out in the IBM Cloud catalog.