Hi everyone, my name is Sai Vennam and I'm with the IBM Cloud team. Did you know that, according to a recent study, only 20% of enterprise applications have moved to the cloud? Let's talk about why exactly that is. Well, we know that the container technology Is crucial for making that transition to the
cloud, but even with businesses adopting it they're still running into a number of roadblocks. Say, for example, that a business is creating a new cloud-native application but the pace at which it is progressing is much faster than the legacy data layer can scale. Now, this is just one use case. IBM has identified key challenges preventing businesses from moving to the cloud and created what we are calling IBM Cloud Paks. Now, let's start building out the stack that supports Cloud Paks. It starts with Red Hat OpenShift. Now OpenShift is their flagship container platform and, essentially, it's based on container and Kubernetes technology. So, with Cloud Paks, what we've done is we've taken IBM middleware packaged it up, but more importantly optimized it to run directly on
top of OpenShift. This means it runs best in an OpenShift or container-based environment. So up here, we have Cloud Packs. Now since Cloud Packs are supported on OpenShift, now we have to think about what OpenShift is support, and the great thing is OpenShift is actually supported anywhere. So, any major public cloud provider or maybe on-prem or a private cloud. The experience for getting Cloud Paks on IBM Cloud is actually very streamlined and we will have a future video that goes through
that entire experience. Now, we've built out the ground work here
but the last layer that we haven't mentioned is gonna be the actual applications or the
business logic that actually leverages those Cloud Paks. That's where the user and the
customer comes in to actually build out. Now there's three key tenants to Cloud Paks that I want to outline. So, for one are they can run anywhere. We
talked about this, regardless of where you're OpenShift platforms are running, so on-prem or public or private clouds, or even running on IBM Cloud you can run those Cloud Paks in a fully supported fashion anywhere. Next, we have the idea that they're open as well as secure. Now we mentioned that their built and optimized for OpenShift which is based on open source technology and principles. This allows you to avoid vendor lockin and basically run these applications and logic anywhere. In addition, it's secure from the ground up,
so essentially, we have security patches as well as updates the platform regardless of whether it's the operating system OpenShift or the entire set IBM certified middleware
through the Cloud Paks. Now, the last thing that we have here is the fact that they're consumable. Now Cloud Paks are consumable in the sense that you can not only pay for what you need but also when you need it. In addition, since we package them up into you these five clear use cases that we have here, they essentially allow you to consume this particular solution that you need that is mitigating or preventing you from making the transition to the cloud. Now we'll start by actually going through
each of these different Cloud Paks. At the top we have Cloud Paks for Apps. Cloud Paks for Apps essentially allows you to, whether you're creating new cloud-native assets or
modernizing maybe an existing application, it allows you to get started on the right
foot. So, creating a new microservice you have to think maybe wanted to run on any cloud environment in addition taking advantage of certified and secure run times and capabilities.
So, we have the tools to let you do that. In addition, so you have legacy infrastructure or application workloads, particularly those based on WebSphere there are prescribed approaches to modernize those. Next, we have Cloud Paks for Data. Now data is crucial to any application and over the years and maybe decades businesses have accrued lots and lots of data, but the problem is the majority of that data is not cataloged
or maybe even unaccessible, but businesses know that if they were to leverage all of
that data they can really get new analytics and insights. Now Cloud Pak for Data gives you a single pane allowing you to connect up all of those data sources and then starting infusing AI and machine learning to derive new insights from those capabilities. That's the power of this Cloud Pak. Next, we have Cloud Pak for Automation. Now every business kind of has these everyday mundane tasks, things that can be automated.
So for example invoices that need to be approved or documents that need to make sure that they're following the right guidelines. Now, this Cloud Pak allows you to automate those everyday processes allowing your employees to focus on those higher value tasks. Next, we have Cloud Pak for Integration. Now, in previous videos we've talked about this emerging pattern of applications, essentially applications are that are basically hybrid cloud or following a hybrid cloud architecture, so apps that are running legacy on-prem as well as new apps running in the cloud. Now, those desperate environments to kind of get them to work holistically you may take advantage of something like APIs and API management, or maybe you're taking advantage of a faster protocol something like messages with Kafka. Regardless when it comes to integrating these different solutions and having them work with each other that's where Cloud Pak for Integration  comes in. Last, but not least, we have the Cloud Pak
for Multicloud Management. Now, the future is not just hybrid but also multicloud. This
means maybe you're taking advantage of multiple clouds and multiple public cloud providers.
Now in this case there's three major things to think about, how do you cover all of those environments, so things like security and compliance policies. How do you automate deployment of assets to those environments? And finally, how to get visibility things like metrics and analytics
on those apps or just to make sure that they're healthy. That's where this final Cloud Pak
Multicloud Management comes then. Now bring all of this together we have IBM Cloud Paks, essentially allowing you to reduce your speed for development as well as your operational expenses. Thanks for joining me for this quick overview of IBM Cloud Paks. As always you can get started quickly by creating a free account on IBM
Cloud. If you have any questions or simply like the video, be sure to drop a like or comment below. Stay tuned for more videos like this in the
future. Thank you.