So most of us have at this point in our lives 
have probably used a chatbot, maybe without   even knowing it. Have you ever wondered how does 
a chatbot work? What powers it? How do I interact   with it? Let's dive in. My name is Morgan Carroll 
with IBM Cloud. Let's say you're the owner of a   flower shop, this is you. And you're the only 
employee, maybe you don't have time to respond   to common customer inquiries, such as what time 
do you open, do you have yellow roses in stock,   how do I contact you. So you've got your customer 
up here and they need to get in touch with you,   but you're busy you can't answer the phone. So 
what can we do to solve this problem? This is   where Flora, the floral chatbot comes in. This is 
Flora over here. Now if a customer has a simple   question, let's say they just want to know, um, 
what time do you guys open. They can ask Flora   "hey what time do you all open?", and 
then Flora is going to be able to respond   with the appropriate answer. She's going to say, 
you know, maybe "we open Monday at 9 AM." All   without me having to interact with the chatbot, or 
the customer, so that I'm free to do what I love   to do which is designing floral arrangements. 
Now let's think of a more complex example.   Say you have the bank here, and you as the 
customer you would like to check and see   what your balance is. So I just got paid I don't 
know how much money is in the bank but I need   to go buy some socks. So rather than having to 
call the bank and wait on hold, and wait for a   teller to pull up your information, and check your 
account status, you could actually interact with   Birdie, the banking bot. So in this 
case I'm going to ask Birdie, "Birdie,   what is my balance? How much money do I have 
currently?" Bertie's going to come back and ask,   "I can help you with that, but what is your 
account number, your pin number?", you know   some identifying information. So I'm going to be 
able to provide this information back to Birdie.   My account number, maybe my date of 
birth, a pin number, etc., etc. From there   all without any tellers or any employees having 
to interact with Birdie, she's going to be able   to go and ask the bank, she's going to pass 
along all this information, my account number,   my date of birth, and my pin number, and she's 
going to say "hey bank, how much money does this   person have in their account?" The bank is going 
to authorize me and say "okay this is all the   appropriate information that we need." The bank 
is going to respond with "I'm sorry you only have   five dollars", maybe enough for socks, maybe not. 
But then Birdie is going to be able to take that   response and pass it back to me, the customer, 
all without having to interact with any humans   and it's very simple. So how does this really 
work? Let's dive in. Going back to the floral shop   example. Let's say tomorrow is Mother's Day and 
you forgot to order flowers like we normally do.   So here's you, my customer. Now like we mentioned 
before, the floral shop owner is very busy,   she's putting together all these arrangements, 
she doesn't really have time to answer the phone.   So luckily there are a few different 
ways that you the user can interact   with our chatbot to actually automate 
ordering some flowers for your mother.   So, on the floral shop website there could be a 
little pop-up, maybe at the bottom that has Flora.   This is Flora, the floral bot, and she's here 
and she's going to be able to pop-up and ask   me "what kind of flowers would you like to 
order?" Obviously yellow roses because those   are my mother's favorite. If we don't want to 
use the website, we could actually just call in.   So it can be either text based or voice based. 
So, if I call the chatbot she says "Welcome to   Flower Supply 101, what would you like to place 
your order for?" I would say "I would like a dozen   yellow roses", and it's just conversational. 
And she's going to take my order and be able   to process it and you can also use various instant 
messaging services, you know, for different social   media platforms you can integrate. So you have 
all these different ways that you can interact   with the chatbot. Now let's think about how 
that actually works, sort of on the backend.   So I think by now we're all familiar with the 
cloud, it's the buzzword of the year. This is   actually where our chatbot is going to live. So 
you'll have a chatbot service provider and this   chatbot is going to integrate with various 
services to actually process whatever speech   it is that the user is saying. It's going to use 
Natural Language Processing, as well as Artificial   Intelligence, to take what i'm saying and then 
actually translate it into something that a   computer can understand. So, I'm saying whether 
it's via phone or via instant messenger, or to   the webpage via text or voice, I would like to 
purchase some yellow roses. So I'll say "purchase   yellow roses", and maybe I want to do a dozen. 
Maybe next year I'll do two dozen, I should.   So then it's gonna pass this, I'm gonna pass this 
information to either the web page or IM or voice.   This is actually, whatever this medium 
is, it's going to send this information   up to the cloud. Now the cloud is going to take 
this and it's going to process it. It's going to   say "I see that the user wants to purchase this 
specific item", in this case 12 yellow roses.   Now we have to make sure that we actually have 
these roses in stock, you know, if i try to place   an order and then I pay for it and then I get a 
notice sorry we're out of stock well that's just   not a good user experience. So the way this is 
going to work is we'll use various cloud services   and we're actually going to go over here and 
connect to what I'm going to call floral systems.   And this is basically just going 
to be our database on the backend,   and it's going to show, you know, maybe I 
have 36 yellow roses in stock. I've also got,   let's say, 14 red tulips, and 3 succulents. Succulents. So, I've sent this information to 
the webpage already as the user now the webpage   is going to say "all right, purchase", and then 
12 roses, yellow roses. Now this is going to   send this information to the cloud to my chatbot 
service provider, and then that is actually going   to go out here and check the database. So I'll 
say "12 yellow roses is what we're looking for",   and then we can see we've actually got 36. 
So we have plenty of roses, this is good.   So now we're going to send a 
response back. We're going to say   "Yes, we have more than enough roses in stock. 
So we can go ahead and place this order".   And the cloud is going to come back and say "Yes 
let's place this order." And then the webpage is   going to come back to me and say "Absolutely, 
you're in luck. You didn't wait too long. Maybe   next year try to do it a little quicker, 
but we're going to be able to fulfill your   order." So then I'm over here the whole time as, 
let's say I'm over here, the floral shop owner. And I'm just building floral arrangements. Maybe 
I'll get a notification kind of off to the side,   but all in all the whole thing is automated so 
I don't have to stop what I'm doing to actually   take care of this, and it's 
going to save me a lot of time.   Now let's talk about the benefits of, you know, 
why would we want to use a chatbot. I mean it   is it is nice to have that human interaction 
whenever you're dealing with your customers, but   I think probably the number one reason that 
someone may want to use a chatbot is to save   time. And what I mean by that is, you know, 
not only are you saving time when it comes to   like interacting with your customers 
and getting someone to place an order,   but again, you're leaving time off to 
the side for you to go, and you know,   maybe you've got to do some bookkeeping, you've 
got to put these floral arrangements together,   whatever it is, it's going to save you hours 
and hours over the course of even just a month. Two. Simplicity. Chatbots believe it or not are surprisingly 
simple to build. You don't have to know how   to write any code in most cases, if you want to do 
more in-depth integrations, you might need to know   some code, but for the most part it's just natural 
language based. You could say "Hey chatbot,   I want you to tell users that I'm open Monday 
through Friday 9 AM to 6 PM", and it's going to be   able to relay that information without having to 
know any Python, or JavaScript, or anything like that. Lastly, time to launch. So what that means 
is that it does not take a lot of time to build   a chatbot. Like I said earlier, you don't have 
to know any code, and since it's cloud-based   you don't have to build up any of the underlying 
infrastructure. From the time you start building   the chatbot to the time it's completed could be 
as quick as one hour. And so, these are some of   the reasons that you may want to build a chatbot 
for your business. So I hope this helped explain   what a chatbot is, how it works, and why you 
may want to use it. Thank you for watching.   If you have questions please drop us a line 
below. If you want to see more videos like   this in the future, please like and 
subscribe. And don't forget you can   grow your skills and earn a badge by creating 
your own chatbot by clicking the link below.