I personally feel the AI situation
is about what it's going to be used for. You know, it's I understand it's the future
and it's not going anywhere anytime soon. And I'm not anti AI. I just need someone to show me
the positive aspects of this AI thing. Generative AI offers great power,
and the great unknown. While being transported into new realms
of creativity is awe-inspiring, generative
AI is also seen as an ethical minefield. Today, we're talking about
the amazing, uncanny, and sometimes eerie world of unreal reality in music, film,
and your daily scroll. We're now extremely lucky to be joined by three time
Grammy Award winning hitmaker Ne-Yo. Ne-Yo. Welcome. How you doing, brother? Hey. Well, look,
one of the things that a lot of people might not know about you is that you've got a real passion
for science and technology. So please, let's jump into that. I want to know where that comes from. Well, it all starts with video games. I've been a video game head for a really,
really long time still am to this day is actually my my, my therapy. You know, when I need, when I need a break
from the music industry. Normally, you can find me somewhere
with my PlayStation just doing that. But, it started there,
and then it started getting into the art of creating video games. And, you know, what it takes to
to make the video games look the way they look
and things of that nature. So it started there and then and then,
you know, blossomed into more interest in the behind the scenes work of just what it is to create
some of my favorite video games. And then it goes deeper than that
into coding and all of those things. Actually, I invested in a coding school
not too long ago, just just out of sheer passion
for the knowledge of it. Yeah. So, so, yeah,
that's that's where it starts. Well, it sounds like if you're interested
in something, you go all in and you seem to take your passions
and really turn that into something even greater than yourself. So let's pivot that to talking about
AI some. Let's start off
with the positive about that. What are you excited about
in the space of AI? I personally feel the AI situation
is about what it's going to be used for. You know, it's I understand it's the future
and it's not going anywhere anytime soon. And I'm not anti AI. I just need someone to show me
the positive aspects of this AI thing. You know, it kind of what sparked this
whole thing is when somebody showed me an AI program that could not only attempt
to write a song in the style of Ne-Yo, but then showed me another one
they attempted to sing the song using my voice, and that just, that just,
that didn't fly with me. I'm like, wait a minute. No one sees this as a threat at all? This doesn’t strike anybody is weird
that there's a whole song here written in my style, singing my voice,
and I had nothing to do with it? That's not weird to anybody else? So, I mean, that's that's, you know,
that's kind of where I sit with it. Again, I'm waiting on someone to bring me
the positive aspects of this whole AI thing in regards to music creation and,
and the music industry, because as of right now,
all I can kind of see is the red flags. Now, again, I'm 100% open to someone showing me the positive aspects of
I just have yet to see them. Quick question then, when you did hear some of the songs
that were created using this AI in this form of Ne-Yo,
in the styling of Ne-Yo, what’d you think? Did it sound good? It didn't sound bad. No, it wasn't bad at all. The worst part about it is that again,
it was my voice and a style similar to mine. You know, it was... a good impersonation, I’ll say. It was a it was a very good impersonation. But the reality is it wasn't me. Well, then let's stay in this space
for a moment, because what you're talking about
are really some true ethical considerations
that a lot of us have about AI. So let's talk
about some of those concerns. You remember Napster and then iTunes,
and then when Spotify came on in and changed the music industry forever. Is it possible
that gen AI is just the next reset? It's definitely possible. And, I think that it would be smart to get ahead of it as opposed to,
you know, how it happened with Napster. You know, where,
it had to be the whole lawsuit thing. And then all of a sudden
that becomes the norm. Yeah,
it would be smart to get in front of it. But, if AI is doing it all for you,
what are you doing as the human being like? You know, nowadays, I got a question every song that comes
across the table, because it could be it could be an AI that did it
and it's like, okay, am I working with this songwriter
or am I working with this machine? Again, great impersonations all day long. Yeah, fantastic. And that's great for,
you know, the the fun element of it. It's fun to listen
to SpongeBob SquarePants sing a TI song. Yeah. That's fun. Let’s like imagine
a world where artists can protect or control their likeness
while becoming still more efficient. Do you think that there's a possibility
you can use AI to write your songs with you, and then you can go on vacation
and then maybe, like, come back in and check it and give it some notes
and then craft it together. To be completely honest, to me all that
sounds like is artists getting lazy. It just it just sounds like it just sounds like
an opportunity for an artist to get lazy. But Ne-Yo, when artists first experienced
Pro Tools for the first time, do you think that they had
a similar reaction? Because... I felt the same way.
You did feel the same way. I felt the same way about Pro Tools. Again, there are people that spent years
learning how to sing on key and now anybody can sing on key
at the push of a button. Again, I'm not against technology. I'm not even against AI. AI is the next wave. It's not going anywhere, I get it,
I understand that. I just need to know how I'm supposed
to not feel threatened by a machine that’s going to come in and try to take away
what it is that I that that I do. So let's take matrix
out of the studio. Right. So I'm getting that, you know,
you're not a huge fan of having AI really assist you in the studio
just yet. But let's think about performance
because I know you are also very known for your live performances. You've had different versions of yourself
that you've tapped into for multiple albums.
There have been multiple eras of Ne-Yo. What if you wanted to do sort of like a Ne-Yo eras show where it's
you and then different versions of you, and we've got those other versions
that we're using AI in order to generate. It could be cool, I guess. For something like that. Hold on!
Did Ne-Yo just crack a little bit on AI? No, I didn’t. Because it’s, because it's still me. I appreciate
just you being genuine and open and honest about AI, you know,
and where you are right now in AI. Because here's the thing, Ne-Yo, I feel like if we do a follow up
interview, like in a year or two, a whole new song might be being sung,
you may have, you may, you might. You might. I mean, you might be right,
you might be wrong. Well, I'm thankful that we've had
the authentic Ne-Yo on here today at 100%. It's been a real privilege
to talk with you, man. But I also hear that you've got a new tour
coming on up. So tell me a little bit about what
we can look forward to with that. Yes, indeed. And it's really me, guys. It's
no holograms. It's me out there singing, dancing,
sweating, being a whole human, all right? Sharing emotions and passions
with other human beings. That's what it is. That's what my tour is. We're in Australia right now. It's the champagne and roses tour. We go from Australia to Singapore
to to Japan to China. We go home for a minute for,
you know, for Christmas and the holidays. And then come to top of the year, Mary
just announced it myself, Mary J. Blige. Mario, we're going out again.
Domestic. We'll be in a city near you,
and it'll be actually us. It'll be actually as. Well, to use one of your own words,
it sounds as though the real Ne-Yo is irreplaceable. I like what you did there. I like what you did there. I dig that. I dig that. Alright, so Ne-Yo obviously has some legitimate concerns
about how AI gets employed moving forward. So let's talk to someone who's actively
using it with artists. Ed Ulbrich, Chief
Content Officer at Metaphysic.ai. Ed, welcome. Hey, Albert, how are you? I'm really excited to talk to you today. Yeah. Me too.
Glad to glad to be here with you. So let's start off by talking about your work
as Chief Content Officer at Metaphysic.ai. I know that you recently made Eminem
a young Slim Shady again at the VMAs. So did you do that just to help
millennials like me not feel like we're turning 40? What I find fascinating is there's
there are artists that are really leaning in early into AI and,
you know, you couldn't predict, but but, you know, Marshall
Mathers, and his team have been, seekers. I would say they have been early.
They have been pioneering. They've been looking
they've been, investigating. What I love about
this is seeing artists, you know, and I'm I am blessed, we'll get to this, but it's such a cool thing right now
to be able to sit with great artists. They see our technology
through the lens of the creative problems they're trying to solve in ways
we would have never imagined. And so it's just magic to see something. They'll see it differently
and find an application for it. What I love about this particular
project is it is using AI technology magic, really in support of story
and narrative and something bigger, right? So it's not just a gimmick, it's it's
sort of a through line and it's something he's using in the work.
And I think it's just brilliant. And and I find what he's doing, it's
very personal. And he's using this technology in a way
to express himself very personally, which, was refreshing
and surprising like that. So to me, it's just like,
what an honor, right? To see people just harness
this and just do amazing things. And it blew up, obviously. Yeah. I mean, as a viewer, as a fan,
you see it and you get chills. So it is eliciting
this very emotional reaction. Absolutely. I mean, like
I couldn't have said it better. That is, the power of this is you
stop looking at how it was made. It just is, right? And everything I've done for the 30 years
prior, we're struggling to get past that, you know, and hide it. But, you know,
these are very different tools we use now. But Ed,
I do want to know how it's made though. So how does this technology even work
like on a practical level, how do you build a generative AI program that can make someone come
to life on stage? Yeah. Well, that's a
that's a big question that we could probably do a multi-part session
on, with some people far smarter than me. I would tell you, just in general,
it's data science, right? This is a fundamental shift
from everything I've ever known. And to be quite honest,
two and a half years ago, two years ago, I was introduced to a TikTok of deepfake
Tom Cruise. Right. So that was sort of like, wow. And it was a friend. And I'm coming from your high end
visual effects, you know, from from doing, you know, big, big, you know,
Marvel movies and, and all that stuff. And so we saw that was like,
wait, what's that, right? Now, at the same time, we'd also seen deepfakes that were kind of ehh,
and it's all sketchy and stuff. But this just artistically being used in a way to entertain and make people
laugh and smile, but it was so well done. So who's doing that?
We were trying to figure it out. So that ends up turning into a visual
effects supervisor friend of mine who does huge movies. A guy named Kevin Bailey, and he was working with Robert Zemeckis. He's Robert Zemeckis’s
visual effects supervisor for movie after movie after movie. He saw the potential taken from a TikTok all the way to how you could deploy this
on a major motion picture. It's Here, H-E-R-E, Robert Zemeckis. It's Tom Hanks and Robin Wright. It's a beautiful, amazing, film that, you know, otherwise
likely couldn't have been made. That's the one where it looks
as though the entire movie is shot from the exact same angle
through time? It is. Nothing moves, but time,
and time is moving constantly around this. And and it settles into this, this family. And it's just beautiful. And, it is such an extraordinary thing
because this is a technology wonder. I mean, a technological wonder,
it is, an unbelievable undertaking. And and yet it worked so well. It was, really a game changer for me. And so when I saw that, that from that
TikTok to to getting to actually, because I didn't work at Metaphysic
at that time, right Metaphysic, it just started,
they'd done a screen test to, get this project when I saw it, it was
it was extraordinary. I was both mind blown, like, oh, my God,
that is amazing. And at the same time, just like,
oh my God, like that. This is a profound quantum leap for me. It was like I could take everything I've ever known
with the best people in the world using those tools and deploy them
against this, and we could never do that. And then I found out
it's rendered and done in real time. As the actor’s performing, the AI I'm not,
that's being driven in real time live. And that was like, oh my God. And immediately I realized, like, over here I have horses
and buggies and rocks and sticks, and here these people have thermonuclear
fusion and they're focusing it, and they haven't
even scratched the surface yet. And so that's so I have, I'm all in. Ed, you mentioned the term
deepfake though. And I know that that can be
a very controversial term. So where do you sit on that. And how do you consider the work
that you do as related to deepfake? I hate that term. I do, but I hate it
for, it's words, it’s letters. It's I think it comes from a bad place,
right. That,
that that word that, that made up thing, I think, and therefore
it has a bad connotation in the culture. That's not the tool. That's the the people. Right. Be real clear about that. That same tool or tools like it or, or methodologies
utilizing data science in certain ways. There are people doing extraordinary
things like emotional, moving
humanity things using this technology. So it's language. I think it's a moment in this continuum
of all things I can say in a few years from now that what is will be
we won't be talking about this anymore. There'll be all kinds of brand new stuff
to be dealt with. Right? I mean, because as empowering
as this technology is, we can both acknowledge
that it doesn't come without pitfalls. Absolutely. Because, you know,
there are artists who are worried that they'll be impersonated
by or replaced by AI. So what are you doing in your work
so that artists are building with AI? Yeah. Oh, that's a big question. It's a very important question. We're like in the wild, wild west, right? There's really no law and order yet. It hasn't all been figured
out. And so, you know. Oh yes. You know, any technology in the wrong hands
can be used for terrible things. People see, like I told you, artists
look at what we do, and magic happens because they're seeing it through
what they're trying to express and look and try to apply it.
And and from that comes all this magic. But similarly, you know, other people
can see things in a different way. It comes down to access,
which requires money. There's still a barrier to entry. Not to say that it's not that much money. And some pretty extraordinary
things can be done, I would say from our perspective, from my personal perspective also,
and what I was drawn to to join this company
to take on this movie. And now we've done three movies
and we have all this amazing stuff is, one is we're here
to we've devoted ourselves to we're helping
save the world from boredom. Right. That's our mission. Right? So so that's our our purpose. This is very much, an entertainment endeavor currently. We are a technology company
that makes tools that we are expressing, creatively in entertainment
and doing so quite well. That is,
that is a whole, whole lot of fun. At the same time, we're sort of
in uncharted territory when we now get to identity and likeness
and those types of things. Now, I will also tell you,
because this old guy with the white hair and has been doing this a very long time. So we have been scanning famous actors
and celebrities for 25 years. Right. We have been creating CG
likenesses of them for, you know, that long as well,
to varying degrees of success. So these are not new issues. And it's funny because weirdly,
what was it, in 2009, I got to do a Ted talk
after The Curious Case of Benjamin Button talking about all these same issues,
all these. I got the questions at the end
from from Chris Anderson. So tell us
what are the ethical implications? And it was like
this was what, 15 years ago. And that is what’s interesting is
we're having the same conversation now. But there's a point on it
and there's just a big, strike. You know, as you recall, you know,
the entire industry was shut down. One of the foundational issues was AI. It was also the same for the writers. So it's a thing
clearly, there's a lot of fear. We had to look at this in a way
like we have to behave ethically. That's all you have to do is self-regulate because there are no,
we're in this time... A guy I used to work with, at an ad agency
a long time ago named Rashad Tobacoala and he has this great quote. The future does not fit
in the containers of the past. Oh, hold on, let's say that again. The future does not fit
in the containers of the past. I just I heard that it was like bullseye. That for where I am right now,
where we are right now, that just says it all
because we're applying our usual thinking to this new thing
and it doesn't fit. This is brand new stuff. So intellectual property
law, identity, property sovereignty, all these things like who owns what,
how do I protect myself? Like, as it turns out,
you don't own a copyright of yourself, right? You don't own yourself. At least your images of yourself. It's a complicated time. So behaving
ethically is sort of at the core. And so I meet the founders of Metaphysic,
and that's the first thing out of their mouth is ethics first. So, you know, that means you don't go
scrape the internet, right? That that means that we have to be secure. We have to be confidential, you know,
and there's there's a nice thing. In Hollywood, there are standards and
rules already that are pretty significant. And for good reason. Half of filmmaking
that you see in theaters today, you know, one half of it
happens in like in a camera on a set. The other half is happening in computers
all around the planet. So there are very strict
security protocols, how things are done, you know, so
that exists, there's layers beyond that. But we do believe, you know,
people should own and control their data. Let's dig even deeper into that thing
with ethics and regulations, because as you're saying,
artists have a lot to gain with AI, but there is a need for that protection. You're building this content. So as someone who's doing that, how do you ensure the artists
that they're safe to take the leap? That’s a, it's consent, right. Yeah. No consent, no AI. Right, that's it. We we build models, we train with training data,
we do data acquisitions, and we we... And so all that needs to be
if we're using existing materials, that has to be licensed
and cleared, right. If you get no license,
no clarity, no AI, that's just it. We just you just have to set a standard
for yourself because currently they're not laws
that are requiring us to do this. But there will be there should be,
they are coming, we hope. They need to be because of the other people
that are using similar technologies and having different ideas, and not here
to help save the world from boredom and make you smile or think. But other agendas, right? So there needs to be laws. There need to be regulations. In the meantime, we behave accordingly. Look, I'm
just thinking just off the top of my head, off of the projects that you mentioned,
you've had to convince or your company, your team has had to convince,
like Brad Pitt, Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, these A-list stars to feel comfortable
enough to give themselves on over to AI. So just for fun,
can you give me an elevator pitch in terms of how do you convince somebody like that
that they are safe to dive in? There's a lot of education
that that needs to happen. I will also tell you, you know,
you mentioned Brad Pitt, but, you know, we just Brad Pitt back in 2008/9
when we were making Benjamin Button. And by the way, that wasn't the first time
he'd been scanned and done this either. He's done this a lot. Right. So when we work with some of these,
you know, Tom Hanks is not, new to the scanner, right? I think the issue now is the it's
the technology. Right.
Quite, quite honestly, it's it's not that we couldn't create
capture likenesses and have data of them. It was just, you know, if you wanted to do
anything, it was damn expensive, right? Because it took a lot of people,
you know, in buildings around the world. But, you know, today,
you know, it's very different. There's incredibly powerful technology. It's accessible
and it's it's going so fast. And I would say in many cases
it's education is what's missing, right? It's moving so fast that there is no way
to educate fast enough. And if people aren't leaning in and trying and paying attention
and kind of jumping into it, it just it's just sailing past them. And so, that's what I see. I have a lot of people, you know,
you guys are, you know, eliminating jobs. You're it's a revolution. It's like, well, I don't I've never considered myself a
revolutionist, you know, I've heard this. I'm old. Right? 30 years ago, when we started
Digital Domain in Venice, California, one of the co-founders, James
Cameron, Scott Ross, Stan Winston, these are, you know, major people
in visual effects and entertainment. And obviously James Cameron, my hero, you know, and and this company, launches and we are like,
we are all digital. It was all CGI, right? Well, there was an outrage, right? People were like,
you're going to put people, you know, motion control
cameramen and model makers and miniatures and pyrotechnics,
scenic painters and matte painters. You're going to put us all out of work
and it was like, well, that wasn't the intent,
but there's just new tools, right? You know, it’s kind of undeniable. And I remember coming into the studio
one day, you know, 28 years old,
and there's picketers around us, and there wasn't
even a labor union strike. It was just people like, you know, in the industry, it was like
that was really like, wow, this is crazy. Like it's we're just do it.
And to me, it's just CGI, right. Well, cut to, you know, here we are. That industry,
you know, exploded massively after that, after the dawn of CGI in the late 90s,
you saw the jobs grow by the thousands. There are now tens and tens and,
you know, there are, we created tens of thousands of jobs
coming out of that. Yeah. As a result of that shift in, in the,
in the use of technology proliferated and we start to see morphing
shifting to digital to the point where half of the movie is
made in the computer now. I mean, that's
just that's just where it's at. So still very, very, very,
very expensive, very, very, very slow. You know, people don't realize that there's
like a thousand people working on a movie. Let's talk about the potential
that I'm thinking about, you know, young filmmakers out there, young artists
or even as big name artists. Can you talk to us about how I can be used as a creativity amplifier
rather than a shortcut? Amen. That's it. It’s an amplifier. It is that I say
it's like it's jet fuel for creativity. I would say, you
know, it's an exciting time. It really you look at like this
it we've seen disruption, right? I saw the CGI disruption. And then within that we saw
all these things happening as humans and, and game engines. And so, you know, it's exploded. And then I see this test for this movie
and it was like, you know, stops you dead in your tracks
for this movie Here. Right. It's just like, oh,
everything changes with that. That moment was just like, you know, you can't go back
and then you start to go forward and you realize, like,
I'm just now learning. So many people are doing
so many exciting things. Right? And so I think it's it's like lean in. I tell a lot of people, like, you know what do you recommend to
visual effects artists today? It's like, look up, everyone's very busy
looking down. Just look up because few
people know what we're doing even. It's like there's so much stuff going on,
like get into it. The other thing is
it's a transfer of skill, right? And what I'm seeing,
and this is so wonderful, it's like people who make visual effects
in large visual effects that what they bring is not necessarily
I know how to use this software or that software.
That's really not what's important. It's the eye, it's
the attention to detail. It's the ability
to articulate in language, visual things
explicitly right to someone else, to code something in a way that explicitly results in something that is, you know,
very precisely, controlled. Right. That's that's what it's about. So those people who are facial animators and modelers
and compositors, doing traditional visual, they're taking to AI generative
AI like a duck to water. It is just it's wonderful to see
because the ones who just are that's really like,
if you're a seeker, if you're passionate and you see this stuff, it's like, oh my God, this just unlocks
so much more that I can do. You know, I've seen people
that enjoy what they're doing now. I am at a place like I'm having fun again. I have not said that
for a very long time, by the way, but it really is extraordinary
to see this. And so, look, are things changing? Yes. You know, will job skills change? Yes. You know, will certain functions and tasks
go away? Yes. Will new things emerge? Absolutely. And they're happening every day. We are not even scratching the surface
of what this stuff can do, right? Creatively. And
and that's also what's exciting about it. And other people are making
incredibly exciting tools as well. And when you start to see creatives
now rise up and start to be able to work across a panel of just powerful things, we are going to start to see some things in the world pretty soon
that are going to be extraordinary. You you mentioned scratching the surface. We've only begun to scratch it. But then where should we draw the line? You know, when using generative
AI to create digital versions of people, whether they're real or fictional,
how do we create the parameters? Well, that's a tough thing
to talk to an artist about. I don't know, I always try
to just go out of the lines, right? I don't I don't know that the
I think the, the lines are, law and order. I think there is, you know,
public decency. There is kind of kind of some moral, ethical obligation
to not poisoning people's minds. That's, you know,
we're seeing increasingly difficult. I don't know that there, I would
look at that in this sort in that way. I, I look at this is, you know, at a certain point,
you know, change is the only constant. It's inevitable. We are going through it constantly, it’s
just happening a lot faster right now. I don't ever think about drawing lines
and like, clinging to the past like, Oh, no, I'm staying here. It's like, no, I'm jumping in like, so. So this is going to go to another place
I think we're going to go to. Formats are going to change for sure. Distribution channels
absolutely will change because they already change anyway
constantly. So that's
that's just ever changing distribution. New business
models are emerging all over the place. I think the supply chain that creates
content in the world right now, right now, classic Hollywood, great content,
Madison Avenue advertising, great quality content
is going to go through a renaissance. But it is going to be very disruptive. Because it's on, game on right now. And I think you're going to start
to see creativity surge. I'm seeing it already.
Well with that creativity surging. I know the huge
creative potential is one thing, but what are the more sinister
implications of this, Ed? You know, again, person
dating a major celebrity is over here. You know, the deepfake that we talked
about before, that's one thing. But thinking about security, government,
global business, that's where this can really get scary.
What are your thoughts on that? Well, I'm not an expert on this. And I, for my own mental health,
try not to, you know doom spiral? Very often. Sometimes it is very difficult. I'm clearly aware of the power of media
and its impact. I also have, you know, I have, teenagers, you know, I'm, you know,
the living focus group for some of this. I do think ethical
and moral guardrails are important. There's horrible things, right. And it isn't necessarily
just for the kind of AI is like science. I mean, it's just it's
just a vast spectrum of different things. We're one slice of that. But but similar things in that slice,
you know, you can take any of these tools and, and,
you know, have medical breakthroughs. You know, we've seen
we've seen that, science breakthrough, research breakthrough. Yeah. Just but at the same time, you know,
there's, there's that other of that other world and, and that's the super evil
version of thing. But okay, now we get guardrails. Guardrails are absolutely necessary,
very important here. But let's bring it back to the good,
which is the space where you really seem to thrive. You're coming at this
from a very virtuous space, Ed. So as you're saying, what are you most excited about
for this technology going forward? What's AI realism
going to be like five years from now? I'm all about directors, directors, production
designers, visual effects supervisors. You know that the people who make worlds
and images and characters and people. So to me, that's super exciting and fun.
That always has been. But putting these tools in those hands, that is just mind blowing and and I am, I,
you know, super fortunate, very lucky guy to be able now
to sit with, like, my heroes, like people that to me are some of the world's
greatest filmmakers, like major people that are seeking
this out, that are interested, that are and to just see what they're doing with
it is just like, God, that's incredible. That's what is exciting. And seeing it change so fast
and seeing someone grab it and use it this way, and someone else
grab it and use it that way. And us helping enable that. And through that, innovation comes. So there is something incredibly
intoxicating about that spirit of innovation. That's where we're at is it just unlocks
the creative, you know, self blockers. Right. And and it's fun. It's fun. What a fantastic conversation this was. We were just so thrilled to have you. So I also want to give you this chance
to talk about anything else that you want the people
who are listening to go check out. What are you working
on? Well, go see Here. An amazing film,
incredible story, moving, powerful, beautifully executed
and proud to have been a part of it. And then, you know, the new stuff
I can't tell you about. But stay tuned. Watch this space. You know, ramping, we’re in production
right now on a colossal, epic undertaking. And, you know, this coming this fall. Watch this space as well,
not just in the movie theaters. You know, with Marshall Mathers
you know, we did the first live generative
AI on live television on the VMAs. So that's in the world
now. That's a thing. And so as we go forward,
just keep your eye out. You're going to see some really fun stuff
coming this fall. You know, in, film and television
and, and advertising, you're going to see some, some
fun, some very fun stuff. As we come into the big, media holiday
season. Friends, that's it for today's
episode of AI and action. And I know that you all learned
a ton from that one, so please stay tuned here for more and we'll see you back
here again very, very soon.