Confidential Computing protects your data in 
use through hardware based trusted execution   environments, otherwise called enclaves, but 
how do you adopt these secure enclaves to   truly protect your applications end to end? 
How does this align with your container or   Kubernetes strategy? And do you need new skills 
or additional DevOps workflows to adopt them?  
   Hi, I am Pratheek Karnati, Security Architect 
for IBM Cloud. Today, we are going to talk about   Confidential Computing, and specifically, how 
easy it is to adopt TEEs and to protect your   cloud workloads using IBM Cloud Data Shield.  
 
Briefly, let’s talk about Confidential Computing…   At a high-level confidential computing protects 
data through encryption and isolation of memory,   which complements your data in transit encryption 
(using TLS) and at rest encryption (envelope   encryption using a root key) for a true end 
to end data protection. And this cryptographic   isolation of memory happens either at VM or 
at process level. You can think of it as a   VM level cryptographic isolation or a process 
level cryptographic isolation. For today, let’s   focus on process level cryptographic solutions…  
 
…or secure enclaves… let’s look at Intel Software   Guard Extensions (SGX) and how Data Shield can 
help you adopt Intel SGX with no code changes! 
   Intel Software Guard Extensions (SGX) is a set 
of security-related instruction codes that are   built into some modern Intel central processing 
units (CPUs). They allow user-level as well   as operating system code to define private regions 
of memory, again enclaves, whose contents are   protected and unable to be either read or saved by 
any process outside the enclave itself, including   processes running at higher privilege levels.  
 
So, where do you begin? 
   First, you start with the Kubernetes cluster. You 
can provision either an IBM Kubernetes Service   or Red Hat Open Shift on IBM Cloud cluster 
with Intel SGX capable worker nodes. Next,   you install Data Shield helm chart on your 
cluster. This installs your own dedicated   single tenant Data Shield instance on your 
cluster, which includes an UI and an API.  
   The API seamlessly aligns with your cloud 
native strategy and integrates with your   DevOps pipelines to convert your container images 
to Intel SGX capable secure enclave counterparts,   using industry’s best Runtime Encryption 
technology from Fortanix! Data Shield pulls   your container image from your registry, converts 
and pushes the new image back to your registry,   without you having to make any code changes! You 
can now update your Kubernetes deployment yaml   and deploy your new runtime memory 
encrypted application to your cluster.  And yes, Data Shield also takes the 
complexity away from attestation   and presents you the attestation report 
through a Public Key Infrastructure native to   your cluster. This gives you the additional 
layer of technical assurance you need.  
   The UI helps with user access management, 
presents you with the attestation reports,   gives you privileges to allow or deny a certain 
enclave, and even has an intuitive tool to convert   your application for a quick demo or a PoC. 
 
To recap, Data Shield is a single tenant   software that runs on your Kubernetes cluster 
and helps you adopt Intel SGX secure enclaves   with technical assurance through attestation 
reports and with no code changes.