I want to start off with talking to you about 
three things that keep me up at night, right? 
  Three things: the first, and it may be, you 
know, very common for you too, is climate change.   Climate change absolutely keeps me up at night. The second thing that keeps me up at night   is that people may have no idea that an artificial intelligence is making a decision that directly   impacts their lives - what percentage interest 
rate you get on your loan, whether you get that   job that you applied for, whether your kid gets 
into that college that they really want to go to.  Today AI is making decisions 
that directly impact you. The third thing that keeps me up at night 
is: even when people know that an AI   is making a decision about them, they may assume 
that because it's not a fallible human with bias,   that somehow the AI is going to make a decision that's morally or ethically squeaky clean,   and that could not be farther from the truth. 
  So, if you think about organizations 
and what happens over 80% of the time   proof of concepts associated with artificial 
intelligence actually gets stalled in testing   and more often than not it is because people do not trust the results from that AI model. So, we're going to talk a lot about trust,   and when thinking about trust (I’m going to 
switch colors here) there's actually five pillars. OK, when you're thinking about what does it 
take to earn trust in an artificial intelligence   that's being made by your organization or being procured by your organization: five pillars. 
  The first thing to be thinking about 
is fairness. How can you ensure   that the AI model is fair towards everybody in particular historically underrepresented groups. 
  OK, the second is explainable is your AI model explainable such that you'd be able to tell   somebody, an end user, what data sets were being 
used in order to curate that model, what methods,   what expertise was the data lineage in provenance 
associated with, how that model was trained. 
  The third: robustness. Can you assure end users 
that nobody can hack such an AI model such that   a person could disadvantage 
willfully other people and or   make the results of that model benefit 
one particular person over another?
  The fourth is transparency. Are you telling 
people, right off the bat, that the AI model   is indeed being used to make 
that decision and are you giving   people access to a fact sheet or metadata so 
that they can learn more about that model? 
	
  And the fifth one is: are you 
assuring people's data privacy?  So, those are the five pillars. OK, now 
IBM has come up with three principles   when thinking about AI in an organization. The first being that the purpose of artificial   intelligence is really meant to be to augment 
human intelligence not to replace it.
  The second is that data and the insights from 
those data belong to the creator alone
	
  OK, and the third is that AI systems, and I would 
opine the entire AI life cycle, really should be   transparent and explainable, right? 
 
So, so, those are the five pillars.   Now, the next thing I want you to remember as 
you're thinking about this space of earning   trust and artificial intelligence is that this is 
not a technological challenge. It can't be solved   with just throwing tools and tech over some kind 
of fence. This is a socio-technological challenge.   "Social" meaning people, people, people. 
Socio-technological challenges because   it's a socio-technological challenge it 
must be addressed holistically, okay? 
  "Holistically" meaning there's three major things 
that you should think about. I mentioned people,   people the culture of your organization, right? 
Thinking about the diversity of your teams,   you know, your data science team. Who is curating 
that data to train that model? How many women are   on that team? How many minorities are on that 
team, right? Think about diversity. I don't   know if you've ever heard of the the "wisdom of 
crowds". That's actually a proven mathematical   theory: the more diverse your group of people, 
the less chance for error, and that is absolutely   true in the realm of artificial intelligence. 
 
The second thing is process or governance, right?  What is it that use your organization 
what are you going to promise your   both your employees as well as the market with 
respect to what standards you're going to stand by   for your AI model in terms of things like fairness 
and explainability accountability, etc., right?
  And the third area is tooling, right? What are 
the tools, AI engineering methods, frameworks   that you can use in order to ensure these 
things, ensure those five pillars, and we're   gonna do a deep dive into that as well, but the 
next show that I’m going to be running with you   we're actually going to be talking about this 
one. About people and culture. So, stay tuned. 
  If you like this video and series, please 
comment below stay tuned for more videos   that are part of this series and to 
get updates please like and subscribe.