Hmm, let's see, let me make some first name Let's see, maybe last name Oh just .. oh, oh, hello! I'm just making some 
JSON here! Now I've made this JSON object,   question comes to mind: if that's the format I 
love to work in, what is the best data store to   handle JSON objects? Hello, my name is Jamil 
Spain, Brand Technical Specialist with the   US Financial Services Market. Today I want 
to talk through when making that decision,   not the front-end, not the back-end, but for the 
database layer in your application architecture.   If you love working with JSON which database of 
choice should you use? Today's topic is MongoDB   being that choice. Now as a technologist often when 
we evaluate technology we ought to have some type   of criteria to make our decisions against. Here 
I have my chosen 3 that I like to do when   it comes to evaluating technology - the flexibility, 
how easy easy is it to implement, and also at some   point once we start having fun behind the keyboard 
we got to consider the deployment aspect here. I've   already started here with the JSON object. So as 
you can see and guess, MongoDB is great for storing   NoSQL data structures. Meaning it's not, you 
know, built to be, I don't have to define the   structure up front, I can take a JSON object, 
a document, that really has no structure   any number of fields, and it's great to 
store that. Then it also is an in memory data store. So all the objects that I store are located 
in memory processed there which means I have   relatively easy access to get to those as 
well. These JSON documents can be any kind   of size here. One caveat that I have learned from 
working with this and leveraging Mongo to store   my documents here is be conscious of sometimes 
we have a tendency with JSON to not have a set   number of fields. And that can become a problem, 
you may want to make placeholders for null values,   or define some type of consistency here as well. 
One other great feature that I've noticed is if I   were to add a longitude, latitude to my JSON object, 
Mongo is great for querying, doing geospatial   queries against these data sets as well. So, if I wanted to make my own type of let's say a food   delivery service and I wanted to determine which 
locations were closest to you. If I have the users,   me Spain here, actual longitude latitude 
coordinates I could compare that against   the other JSON documents that may also include 
the same type of information here as well.   All right, I think we've covered this. Let's put 
a check mark next to flexibility here as well.   Now when it comes to implementation, yes, you got 
to make sure that all the SDKs are available, are   are there any limitations that you have to account for. 
So of course, there is JavaScript, there's Java,   Golang, there's pretty much all the the value 
pairs are there. Theres the popular languages are   are there for you to use, and easy examples 
client libraries to actually access this as   well. So not a consideration from there. Let's 
talk about deployment for a second after I do   that check mark on implementation here. Therefore 
deployment, you can set up MongoDB relatively, I   want to say easily, but it does, there are easy 
ways to facilitate, whether it's on containers or   maybe on your own Linux servers. You can set up an 
easy instance without security, very easy to play   with. So for development, I would say yes it's very 
easy to set up a single instance and prove out how   easy it is to implement into your architecture 
whether you're architecting for web or mobile   and what you're working with. And for production 
purposes, once you get that exciting architecture   set up here, you will have the ability, it works off 
the same what I like to call "main and secondary   models". So you have a main node that you publish 
to or interact with and it can do the replication to those secondaries. So scaling that way on more of a horizontal scale 
to meet the demand of your actual architecture   there. So that can really be useful if 
you want it to be your primary database   to function with, and as we know JSON is becoming 
a pretty popular standard to to work with your   data structures there. So, we'll do the check mark 
there. So, hopefully it's been useful. There's much,   much more, we're just touching the surface here, but 
I want you to definitely go out to mongodb.org and   look out for more information. Thank you for your 
time. If you have questions, please drop us a line   below. And if you want to see more videos like 
this in the future, please like and subscribe.