Hi, I'm Vivek Kinra from the IBM 
Cloud Hyper Protect Services team.   Today, we're going to talk about Confidential 
Computing as provided by Hyper Protect.   So, why Confidential Computing? 
Data security and protection are by far the biggest inhibitors for organizations 
seeking to move sensitive applications   and data to the public cloud. 
In fact, 95% of our customers   in regulated industry cited security, privacy, 
regulatory concerns and cloud provider having a   backdoor access to organizations sensitive data as 
their main inhibitors for using a public cloud.  To address these concerns, we are talking 
about three pillars of data security   when considering end-to-end data protection.  
Data at rest and data in flight are the two pillars that historically have received the 
most attention and addresses many concerns. However, when regulated industries clients 
bring their sensitive workloads to the IBM Cloud   Hyper Protect Services, they want 
to process their sensitive data with   highest level of data protection without 
compromising the performance and latency. So, to complete the data protection 
lifecycle, client wants to protect their data when it in use, or in memory.
This is the focus of confidential computing. The IBM Cloud Hyper Protect Services, including 
Crypto Services, Virtual Servers and DBaaS offer protection for all 3 pillars thereby providing 
an end-to-end confidential computing environment   in the IBM Cloud.
So, how does IBM provide this level of security?
Well, the Hyper Protect Services leverage many years of IBM's security and
privacy experience to the Cloud.  To do this, we deploy our services on 
special LinuxONE hardware that utilizes what's known as a Secure Service Container.
This is a protective boundary around the base operating system, management backend 
and application interface to ensure no access by the unauthorized figures like system 
administrators or the cloud providers.  
   Secure Service Container ensures: 
Data Integrity and self-attestation - There   is  tamper protection and verification through 
signatures that the packaged software image is   deployed from a trusted source and not 
been modified since leaving the vendor.  In case any tamper is detected, 
Secure Service Container will not boot that image.  
   There are several examples of client 
segments from financial institutes,   automotive manufacturers to start-ups who are 
currently using the Hyper Protect Services   to achieve confidential computing. 
Today, we're going to explore one particular use case, the Digital Assets Platform.
With this use case, clients are tokenizing and trading assets, similarly to 
how the stock market works. However, the assets aren't shares of a company, 
they can range from coins to commodities. With our digital assets platform, 
you have the asset itself,   that is run by a combination of 3 things.  A base technology, Blockchain, 
that provides the ledger. The Wallets, to protect keys.
And Exchanges, or the digital marketplace.  To provide a confidential computing environment 
for the Digital Assets Platform, first,   we utilize protected runtimes with Hyper Protect 
Virtual Servers to actually run the application.  These run within a Secure Service Container that 
automatically encrypts data and provides memory   protection to ensure that no unauthorized 
person gets access to secure data.  Next, we work with the Hyper Protect Crypto 
Services to utilize the Hardware Security Module,   or HSM, and Key Management Service.
With this technology, built on FIPS 140-2 Level 4   certified hardware, clients can 
lock down their storage, backups,   Secure Service Container, and applications.
Finally, we work with other IBM Cloud offerings to provide backup and storage, also integrated 
with Crypto Services, and holistically   locking down the entire environment.
In this way, we protect from   malicious actors in several ways.
They cannot SSH into the boundary, the wallets and ledgers are stored in Cold Storage, or offline, 
with encrypted communications, and the Secure   Service Container is tamper-proof and will prevent 
unauthorized access through these back doors. So, with that example in mind, there 
are 2 reasons to choose Hyper Protect   for Confidential Computing:
First, clients maintain complete authority   over their workloads. They have exclusive 
control of who sees the data, what happens to that data and how that data is processed.
Second, client data and applications are   protected from both insider and outsider 
threats. There is technical assurance,   not just operational assurance.
We go beyond the confidential computing environment to protect data at all stages, in 
flight, at-rest, and in-use, plus the complete   authority that only comes with IBM Cloud.
With that, thank you for listening to this   brief overview of IBM Cloud Hyper 
Protect Services and their role   in the confidential computing environment.
Do not forget to check us out at the links below.