What is multi-access edge computing? How is 
it different than regular edge computing? Hi,   I'm Dan Kehn from IBM Cloud, and before I answer 
those questions, please click like and subscribe.   Edge computing is about bringing compute capacity 
closer where data is created to reduce response   time and the load on back-end servers. Multi-access 
edge computing is the next logical step in edge   computing for telco cloud. It brings compute 
capacity directly to network's edge, literally   on the same infrastructure as the network itself. 
Let's go through it using an example. So we have   say an image application that does image 
analysis. It communicates with the core network. That in turn works with a back-end server. For sake of discussion, on that 
back-end server, let's assume we have   a service called "image analysis service" installed. Okay, this is a classical 
application design pattern;   the user makes a request, it 
goes to a back-end server,   it formulates a response that it returns the end 
user. The round trip for that including latency   might be on the order of 100 milliseconds. 
That's perfectly fine for many applications.   But let's assume we have a more demanding 
application, for example, one that does video.   And it isn't using just one user that it wants 
to capture, it's capturing a crowd. Maybe it's   used for security purposes, maybe it's used for 
threat analysis -- those are just some examples.   What really drives us towards an edge computing 
solution are two things: First, there's a lot   of data. Now an HD video camera, that could 
stream as much as six megabits per second.   The other thing is the real-time 
aspect -- we need a real-time response,   It would be difficult to send all that data 
back to the back-end server, process it, and   return it in real-time. That's why we install edge 
servers closer to where the source of data is.   So say, for example, we install some edge servers, and on those we install 
the "video analysis service". This really helped with our latency problem. We 
no longer have to send data across the network   to a far away server. It also 
helps with our data volume problem.   We're no longer sending huge 
amounts of data across the network. Where multi-access edge computing comes 
into play is when we add a third element, specifically mobility. In the prior examples, we were assuming that 
these edge computers were in a fixed location,   for example, at a retail location providing a 
shopping experience, maybe an IoT device at a   factory that's doing assembly. Those are examples 
where the edge computer location is known.   In this case, for multi-access edge computing, it 
could be anywhere. We cannot predict where the   edge computers might be located, so we install 
them on the network itself. So, for example, we   have a radio access network and then install 
it at the base station; or, we could install it   at the data center for the network itself. This 
really drives latency to its absolute minimum,   as little as 10 milliseconds. It also reduces the 
load on the back-end server for the enterprise.   We could then repurpose that for something 
else, for example, we could do machine learning. So, for example, say we do machine learning 
training, then we take that result and we   give it to the video analysis service 
to improve the quality of its results.   There's a couple other different benefits 
that are worth noting. Because this is   running on the network's infrastructure, 
if there is a temporary outage between the   back-end server and video analysis, it can continue 
to process. Thus you have continuous operations.   Finally, there is the ability to take 
advantage of radio access network data. For example, the radio access network would 
know where the location of the users are   and it could potentially predict where additional 
load would be required. This allows their network   to be much more responsive to users' needs and 
being able to deploy capacity where it's going to   where it's going to be needed in the future. Multi-access edge computing means communication service   providers can bring compute capacity directly to 
your users no matter where or how they connect to   the network. Thank you for watching. If you 
have questions please drop us a line below.   If you want to see more videos like this 
in the future, please like and subscribe.