Hey, everybody, my name is Bradley Knapp, and   we've come together today to talk 
about what is a dedicated host? Dedicated host is a construct that 
you see a lot in the world of cloud,   but it's a little confusing. What does this 
dedicated host thing actually mean? Why does it   look like it's so expensive when you compare it 
to buying a dedicated instance or just a normal   virtual server? And the answer is dedicated 
hosts are a way to provide single tenancy.   Single tenancy means that no one else can 
run on the compute that you are running on. So, if we think about a physical cloud host, 
right, we've got our actual cloud server here.   This is the actual host that runs in the data 
center. In a normal multitenant environment,   we would take, and we would divide that host up 
into pieces, and every one of these pieces as a   virtual server that you would buy. I'll just mark 
that as VSI. In a dedicated host, we still have   the same host, that same box that we were talking 
about before. But instead, this is your box,   and you control all of the VSIs that schedule on 
to it. So instead of this being customer A, and   this being customer B, and this being customer C, 
this is all yours. And so you can choose to divide   it up however you want. You can have one third of 
it go into one VSI and two thirds go into another.   You can divide it half and half, or you 
can put lots of little bitty ones on it. And so, the question, of course, always 
becomes, why would I do this, what is the   value of a dedicated host? Why would I purchase 
this thing? And the answer is really twofold. First is that single tenancy that I mentioned 
before. Single tenancy means that you don't   have to worry about anybody else being able 
to crash through the hypervisor layer within   this host and get to your data. Even though it's 
already incredibly secured in the world of cloud,   it's just one more layer of protection. This 
is very important for health care workloads,   folks in banking and finance like that. But in addition to that single tenancy, 
it also allows you to schedule workloads   that want to be close to be each other, close to 
each other. So, if we think of our example here,   where we've got two VSIs of the same size, let's 
imagine a high-performance compute workload,   something that in the world of HPC, where you 
have lots of compute working on the same problem.   In order to minimize latency and maximize 
performance, you want to pack these onto a few   physical hosts as possible because data transit 
through a physical host is much faster than data   that goes across the network. If we think about 
our example over here, where we've got our multi   tenancy, and we've got multiple multitenant 
boxes, every one of these has to link together,   and that link together takes time. There is a 
latency penalty that you pay. But in a dedicated   host like we have over on this side, because these 
all run on the same physical box, you don't incur   that latency penalty and you can order multiple 
dedicated hosts in order to make that happen. Thank you so much for your time 
today. If you have any questions,   please drop us a line below. If you want 
to see more videos like this in the future,   please do like and subscribe and 
let us know. And don't forget,   you can grow your skills and earn a badge with 
IBM Cloud Labs, which your free, browser-based   interactive Kubernetes labs that you can find more 
information on by looking below. Thanks again.