So Luca, thanks for joining me here today. What do you think is going to be the opportunity to transform the retail industry with introduction of edge computing? The industry for the last 20 or maybe more years have been under great pressure from online retailers and all sorts of competitors. One of the main issues is that some competitors might be much more efficient in the way they manage their supply chain, and the fact that consumers are looking for very on point and effective customer experience. And how does edge computing facilitate a retailer knowing what their consumers are looking for? Retailers, they gather a lot of data about
the consumer, both internal and external, but their main touch point is the cashier. What you've bought at what price and when, how frequently you buy it. But think about how many different products you look at in a supermarket, how many shirts that you've tried on when you are in a department store or how many colognes you try? All those things are not really captured. So, you can use smart devices placed in different areas of the store and collect those touch points and understand more deeply your customer behavior. Yeah, cause really the other part of the equation for the retailers and pressure they're under economically is how to do so. How to introduce these capabilities at lower cost and a cost point that is within the margins of the value they want to deliver. So, doing that in balance is really key here,
isn't it? Absolutely. So, Edge also has the great advantage of the cloud of being flexible and scalable. These really helps the cost effectiveness
of integrating and deploying it on an advanced network, also the maintenance costs are very limited because you can still manage them centrally, but you are able to deploy different software according to the different situation. So, really, the benefit of edge computing
in the future of retail is really going to come from the power of personalization. I totally agree. And edge will allow us to manage these spots between large amount of data and the delivery of something that is extremely personal and extremely valuable for a single person. So Luca, you have the benefit of working with a lot of clients in the field, you hear from them firsthand. What's most exciting for them about what they think they want to do with edge computing? Well, I believe that are three things that
are super exciting. The first side could be the fully automated store. The second one is the ability to leverage
data that is not generated in the store, but, for example, at home or in the car by all
these smart devices that we are surrounded of And the third one is a complete different
immersive experience or kind of device, by virtual reality or augmented reality. Again, this can span from your home to the store. But basically, at some point, we will not
only see and experience what’s actually on the store, but everything this device can bring to us. So, Luca, I really want to thank you for being here today. I appreciate your insight, your knowledge. Thank you again for having me.