Do you know where to go to get medicine
when your child gets sick? Do you know  where to go to recharge your devices
when the power has been out for 20 hours?  Are you able to communicate
with other people in your society?  How the hell do you find out
what benefits you're entitled to from the international community
or from your government? Because of the situation
that you find yourself in when you've been in a blackout
for three days? In a world where AI is a terrifying, culture changing behemoth,
is there another side to the story? A side where AI is actually out there
making positive change and impacting humanity for the better? My guest today, James
Hodson, would like to believe so. He's a researcher, leader
and entrepreneur, as well as the visionary behind
AI for Good. James, thank you so much for being here. Welcome to AI in action. Fantastic pleasure to be here,
to be with you today. Thank you so much for inviting me.
For sure. We're going to really enjoy
picking your brain, but first we're going to start
with the elephant in the room. We know that
AI is scary to a lot of people. So when did you start to think that
instead it could also be a force for positive change and good? Fantastic question.
It's been a really long journey. The foundation was started around
ten years ago, but the idea that we need to use
technology in society in more sustainable ways
and to effectively attack kind of challenges that we face, is
something that's age old, right? It's not something that we came up
with. For us, it was in the late 90s. Over time, right during the 2000s,
and you have to remember with AI, we've had multiple waves
of the expectation of commercialization and the anticipation that AI
is going to transform the universe. And it's been like that since the 50s,
and now we're in a wave where we are actually seeing
structural, transformative change with the technologies,
and it's extremely exciting. It's also, for many people,
seeing it in person, right, interacting with technologies that their parents
even would not have been able to imagine or seeing a self-driving car stop for them at a crossroads in a city, it's a little bit,
you know, takes them aback. And I can see why people would be anxious
about what could happen next. For us, that's what, that vacuum in terms
of the understanding of how technology interacts with society, was the reason
for starting our organization. We wanted to be the providers
of expertise, kind of a backbone for society to understand how to best utilize emerging technologies
in a way that's going to strengthen our resilience, it's
going to strengthen our communities. It's going to make us better
problem solvers overall. It's going to make us better able to use
the resources that we have on this earth, which are not infinite, in order
to give our children a better future right, and live more harmoniously together
so that we're actually building a positive, forward
looking force in the world. I love that overall commitment. Give me some examples though. I want to hear what are some ways
that you've really found that you can use
AI for forces of positivity? Our mission
as an organization can be best described as economic and community resilience through technology. And it's the through technology lens
which changes kind of how we think about what we're doing. In the back,
we are, yes, technologists, right. And I've been a researcher
in AI for two decades, and I've worked across
a whole variety of problems, and I've seen a lot of what can be done
with the technologies. But we are also economists and economists
are people who study human behavior. They study the structure of society
and try to understand what kinds of changes
will have the impact that we desire, and what's the most effective way
of achieving that end result. You have to bring those two parts together
in order to have an impact on the world. You can't just design a technology and expect that it's going to go out there
and have good. You need to do it in context. You can't design a strategy
for a whole nation state and their approach
to technology and society, and how they can attack certain challenges
that they're facing without actually
being within that community. We prefer to strengthen the communities
with the skills and the resources
and the ideas that are required. So that they can build things
for themselves that are going to have a long
lasting impact on adoption. Now, let me dive into the examples
that you asked for. A few years ago, we were approached
by the Tony Blair Institute, based in London, to work with them
and the government of Ethiopia in order to develop a forward thinking strategy for the next 10, 20 years of economic development
and societal transformation in Ethiopia. We’ll detach this conversation from how Ethiopia has developed
politically since that stage. So, for example, in Ethiopia,
they have the same amount of internet bandwidth
for the whole country. As a few blocks
around my house in California. Imagine how that constrains your ability
in the modern world to build an innovative society
that's solving its own challenges. It's a massive bottleneck, right? People actually don't need much
to be entrepreneurial problem solvers in the modern world, right? Laptop, good internet connection, and... good coffee, right? Right. When you are lacking
one of these kind of foundational columns. Right.
You need to start thinking about how can you quickly
get infrastructure in place. It turns out the strong internet backbone
and that kind of infrastructure is actually really important
when it comes to health care. In a country that's as massive
as Ethiopia, with you know, more than 100 million people, most of them living in
rural areas, most of them farming, right? Most of them not really having
any background in technology and not thinking about opportunity
through a technological lens. You need to actually reach them
as a first stage. So a lot of what we
then ended up thinking about was, what's the basic infrastructure
that you need to put in place first, and how do you get people on board
with these ideas? So that's the first example
that a lot of the work we do actually is kind of advocacy oriented in communities to make them understand
that the transformative or the foundational layer
that they need in order to be able to build with technology,
be able to transform their society, it's not that far away from where they are now, but you do need some resources
in order to enable that to take place. Another example on the other side,
we're very involved in Ukraine. Now, you know, obviously
some of the viewers will have seen that. I'm wearing a, rather bright outfit today. Right. Now, this is a traditional
Ukrainian Vyshyvanka. Right. It's an ornate set of patterns
related to particular regions of Ukraine. And for us, as an organization, we started to enable better solutions
to these challenges. Right. 2014, they were ratified by the United Nations. And that's when we also started. And that's the taxonomy that we use
for thinking about the problems
that we want to solve in the world. And if there's one thing in the world
right now which is causing us to fall even further behind on
achieving these goals, it's the fact that we have massive conflicts
that are liable to spill over and are already having deep
economic effects around the world. So we use the fact that, we have the technology expertise,
the scalability expertise to solve problems,
to also help in Ukraine. We have 50 staff on the ground. We have about eight different locations
that we work across, and we're active with the entire Ukrainian government and
every municipal authority in the country, which means that we're developing technologies that are used by Ukrainians
on a daily basis. We're developing strategies and policies
based on data analysis and machine learning
and and AI to enable the Ukrainian economy
to withstand the invasion. In all of known history,
whenever there's been an all out invasion of a country, there has been a collapse
of the banking system, for instance. And you need banks in Ukraine
because of the way that the economy was being managed. There was no run on the banks,
there was no crisis in the banking system. It's one of the few examples of where
good economic thinking actually was able
to prevent something that could have then led to a much, much,
much deeper set of problems. And as a result, you actually have
a functioning society, right? Still. And that means that we're able to go in
and use technology to advance that. Of course, if you didn't have that layer
of well-operating, well-oiled society, then you would have challenges putting AI
and other technologies into place. And all of this starts, of course, as you
mentioned, with the strong foundation, you've got to have that infrastructure
that’s set on up and then you can build. Can you give me some more ideas in terms of
how can we think about AI outside of the the traditional scope of productivity
and actually enhance that? I love this because, you know,
we're, we're getting into conversations that impinge both upon
kind of modern economic thinking and how we understand society and our relationship
with productivity and growth. And so we use measures like GDP, right,
and GDP is an economic measure. It shows you basically how money cycles
through the economy, right. And how quickly it moves around
right from the available pool of capital. It's not actually a very good measure of how productive human beings are. So we have these measures
that are kind of divorced from, you know, how productive
are we being sat here? Right. Maybe it's a net negative. We don't have good ways of
knowing what accelerates our ability to solve the problems that are important,
or reduce the amount of energy that we need to expend
to solve the problem. Right? Or to make a sale or to develop
a new product or to build infrastructure. We don't know actually what
the relationship is between how many hours we work and how much we're paid,
and what actually we're building in society, and how much closer
we are to achieving what we want. So I try to step back from that and not worry
too much about the productivity angle, because it's not useful
for actually putting technology into the context where it can be used
for societal transformation. So I'm going to take an example. Imagine that you have a war.
There's a lot of uncertainty. How do you find the resources
that you need in order to stay calm, stay productive, stay alive, and thrive as much as possible
and in such a situation. So you might imagine, okay, do you know where to go to get medicine
when your child gets sick? Do you know where to go to recharge your devices
when the power has been out for 20 hours? Are you able to communicate
with other people in your society? How the hell do you find out what benefits you're entitled
to from the international community or from your government because of
the situation that you find yourself in when you've been in a blackout
for three days? However, also consider outside here, right in New York City. How do people find out about
the opportunities that they're entitled to? How do they make good decisions
about their plan, plans for the future? How do they make sure they're getting
the training that they need and the support that they need
psychologically? Right, in terms of family planning,
in terms of their relationships with, with the community
and how they actually interact. Can you give me some more examples
of how AI for good works? Maybe on not as large of a scale,
but a little bit more intimately. So we've,
we've had the pleasure of working also on a very municipal level,
right, around the world, including in Brazil and Canada,
here in the US and Europe, looking at ways that we can understand
and analyze the challenges that are being faced in the community
and respond to challenges, but in a way that then
we can take those solutions and potentially scale them to other places
that that need them. For example, in British Columbia,
we played a role in developing what is now an interconnected
wildfire mitigation system, which allows all of the different agencies
that are needed in order to respond to potential situations
where fires get out of control in a way that's coordinated
and in a way that gives them the information
that they need in real time. This is the type of thing
where it's not just about artificial intelligence,
it's about the underlying infrastructure. It's about the hardware. Right. What are your ground observation beacons? How are you getting the overall view
of the situation that's happening? How are you choosing where
to put resources so that you can respond most quickly to a specific point
where the flare up is most likely? Also, how do you maybe
identify ahead of these situations where the risks are so that again, you're
being proactive about mitigating risks rather than dealing with a fire,
which is obviously much more costly, much more dangerous,
and is going to lead to much more damage, to people's lives,
by having to live through it. On the other hand, we can go to
another example, which is workplace. So workplace equality. Right. We have as one of the Sustainable
Development Goals, gender equality. And today, as a society, we're still very,
very far behind on this goal. So for women in particular,
it is very difficult to achieve the same career success as men. And it's more difficult today than it was
ten years ago. How do you attack this kind of situation? We're not going to be able to get into
the DNA of every single company and really solve it
on an individual basis. But one thing we can do with technology
is we can bring more transparency to the signals
that people can use in order to understand the culture of a company, in order
to understand the current structure and how that might be contributing
to outcomes, and by doing that,
by bringing transparency to an area, we can change the approach
that corporate leaders take to managing their culture and make them
focus on these questions more. So that's the economic idea behind it. With technology,
well, AI is fantastic at aggregating data. It's also fantastic
at identifying patterns that we might not be able to see, or precursors to patterns
that we're not going to be able to associate, right,
with kind of manual, old school traditional methods and so one thing that
we do is we work with a variety of data partners, including organizations
that have been collecting, you know, resumé and job applications
for decades in order to look at the relationship
between hiring and companies, the structure,
the internal structure of those companies and how promotions happen
and how people are rewarded for their work, and also how happy
people are, within these organizations. One thing that we're now coming
kind of to the to the point where we're going to be releasing it
publicly is a scorecard of tens of thousands of companies
in the US by metrics that are important to understanding whether this is
a culturally good fit for somebody. So a culturally good fit
from the perspective of an employee, culturally good fit
from the perspective of an investor, and culturally good fit
from the perspective of a customer. You shine a light
and let the market show the way forward. Right. And so what we also try to do with
technology is to bring more light to these areas. I'd say it's less about saying
AI needs a special way of doing things than, well, let's look at, you know,
how do other engineering disciplines
cope with risk and risk mitigation? When we build a bridge, for instance,
do we go out there, kind of stand right looking across the chasm and think,
all right, you know, I think I need a piece of steel
that's about 600ft long. All right, let's see,
let's see what happens. Right?
Usually we don't do it that way. It's not that we are saying
that we should do something wildly different with AI, but computer
science in general has avoided being pinned down
as an engineering discipline for decades. Now, when we think of critical
infrastructure in society, it's not highways,
rail, electrical, water. You know, it's
cyber and communications, right? That is pretty much the underpinning of everything else that we're doing now
because it goes away. And you don't have a banking sector
anymore, you're not going to have reliable water supply
because it's all being basically managed by an interconnected information system. Right. The electrical grid
is going to be able to balance your power. You're going to have surges that break
all of your appliances at home. That backbone has been built
by computer scientists, by AI scientists, by statisticians. And it's an engineering discipline. You know,
we should have come to terms with the fact that it was a real engineering discipline and put proper procedures
in place decades ago. But the reality is we've always treated it
as ah, it's like an art, right? Programing is an art, right? It's an art
that apparently we think is possible to just come out of a language model
because it's artistic, right. So we're going to generate it and it will kind of approximate
the thing that we want it to do. But we need to constrain that art, just
like bridge building is an art now, right? We have many beautiful bridges,
but it's also, at its core, a mathematical engineering
based discipline that needs to have rules about
how we go about identifying the problem that we're solving, ensuring
that we know right and can trust all of our understanding of the base
that we're building upon. Just like you wouldn't
build a bridge on quicksand. Oh, it didn't look like quicksand
when when I was observing it. We need to make sure
that we're doing the right thing. We need to test things
appropriately at scale. Right. So start small, build up. And we need to ensure that when we're
educating people, when we're building the next generation of people
who are going to work in this discipline, that we are not only giving them the mathematical scientific knowledge
that they require, but that we're immersing them
in how to solve problems in society. And when we have that type of thinking,
you know, what else will happen? What's that? They're going to see other opportunities that go beyond
what they're doing in their job. It won't just be,
oh, I've got to deploy a chat bot today that responds to questions on behalf of,
this podcast on our website. It's going to be, well, you know,
when I was walking into work, I saw that, you know, there's clearly an inefficiency
in how we're, you know, managing
kind of pedestrian routes during construction
or something like that. You know, we start to provide people with a basis for thinking more broadly
about their skills and capabilities within the community and society,
and we engage with them on this level. And, you know, people
naturally want to solve problems. And I think that we need
more of this approach. On a practical level, can an individual
coder start to use AI for good today? I think
we're at a really interesting time. So I started programing in, the mid 90s. Right. And there was magic
when I started programing, and I realized that I was one individual with a toolset that could scale
and touch people around the world. Once you internalize that, it's
extremely empowering. And it was true in the 90s
as well as it's true today. But today we can harness per person thousands of kilowatt hours
more in electricity than I was able to harness in the 90s to solve problems,
which means that we can solve problems now at an unprecedented scale,
as an individual, right? We have ability to tap into resources
that no single person would have been able to access with their idea
at any point in history before. And ultimately, you know,
if we put it in crude terms, innovation and the economy is about energy
consumption, okay? And what we're doing right now with AI is we're consuming energy, which is allowing us to build solutions,
right, with small teams that are extremely sophisticated
and have far reaching potential. It sounds like you're placing
a lot on intention, on focus in terms of how we can use AI. Businesses and nonprofits, sometimes
their interests don't always align. So how can we think about AI for good? Both your organization,
but then also the theory, the philosophy. If you're a business person
who's listening to this right now, if you're a person
who's really focused on the bottom line in the business right now,
how can all of this make sense for them? Right now in the United States,
because of the unequal access to technology
and opportunity, education, health care, infrastructure, there is an enormous
amount of untapped economic potential in the US from people that have been
disenfranchized from the system. If as a corporation,
you focus in on helping to solve the challenges in society
that have impacted that, it will actually unlock
an enormous amount of economic value. Because ultimately, what is a society if only half of it is contributing
to solving a problem? Right? Without the private sector, governments
today don't have the expertise
or really the ability because of kind of political deadlock
in some sense, to really fundamentally rethink
how we solve problems. While in some sense corporate America,
the NGOs, civil society
more broadly has a level of flexibility that allows us to not be constrained
by special interests. And employees
at these corporations have even more power because ultimately
they hold the keys to the engine, right? And the engine needs to work
for everybody, right? Not not just for kind of a powerful elite
at the top. There are benefits that come from
operating in a community with an attitude of that community being consequential
to your business in the future, right? Not a resource to be used, but an effective network in which we can operate
to bring positive outcomes for all. Positive outcomes for all. I'm going to take that now, and I want to go back to where we started
this conversation. There's a lot of fear surrounding AI. Why should we not be as afraid
as we are excited? We are at a time where
if we can invest more as a society in creating with, creating the precedents with technology
that underpin big solutions to grand challenges
like climate change. Which obviously is, you know, a framework problem
that we all need to be thinking about, not just from, you know, how do we capture
carbon in the atmosphere at scale, but also what are we doing every day
in our own lives that's impacting this? And what technology can play a role
in bringing that to the forefront of people's attention
and so on. I've always been in a situation
throughout my life and career where the technology that I'm using
could have power to do good and power to do bad
in catastrophic ways on both sides. And yet we have always chosen
as society, eventually, the path of hope and positive outcomes from the technology
rather than the path of destruction. And I think that we will continue
to choose this in the future. Again, that doesn't mean that
we don't need to be eternally vigilant. You can be pretty positive
about the amazing things that we're going to be able to achieve
over the coming years and decades. You know what? I kind of want to just keep that
as a mantra now. So, James,
thank you for such an enlightening but also a very encouraging conversation
today. I believe,
and I really hope, that everybody who's been joining us in this conversation
has also found this equally empowering. So thank you again so much for joining us. It matters. Folks, AI for Good is a nonprofit,
so their funding does come from people like you and me. So please go check out their website
and consider donating at aiforgood.org. Again, thank you all for joining
us. We'll see you next time.