Malcolm: Hello, hello. Welcome to Smart Talks with
IBM, a podcast from Pushkin Industries, iHeartRadio, and IBM. I'm Malcolm Gladwell. This season, we're diving back into
the world of artificial intelligence, but with a focus on the powerful
concept of open, its possibilities, implications, and misconceptions. We'll look at openness from a variety
of angles and explore how the concept is already reshaping industries,
ways of doing business, and our very notion of what's possible. I'm particularly excited for
today's guest, Brian Ryerson. He is senior Director of Digital Strategy
at the US Tennis Association, helping to oversee one of the most iconic events
in the world of sports, the US Open. Brian sat down with Pushkin's
own Jacob Goldstein, host of the podcast, What's Your Problem? A veteran business journalist, Jacob has
reported for the Wall Street Journal, the Miami Herald, and was a longtime
host of the NPR program, Planet Money. IBM has been the official
technology partner of the US Tennis Association for more than 30 years. And the more recent evolution into
generative AI has enhanced the world-class digital experiences that help more than
15 million fans from all over the world enjoy the US Open Tennis Championships. In this episode, we will explore how
generative AI is being used to generate match insights, spoken commentary
for match highlights, and post match summaries at scale for fans to enjoy
through the US Open app and website. We'll explore how these AI solutions
enable the editorial team to cover more of the tournament than ever before, bringing
fans even closer to the game they love. And we'll learn more about one of
the engines behind this AI-powered content creation: a large language
model from the IBM Granite Family, which is trained and maintained using
the watsonx AI and data platform. Okay, let's dive in. Jacob: Brian, welcome to the show. Brian: Thanks for having me. I'm excited to be here. Jacob: Can you say your name and your job? Brian: Yeah. I'm Brian Ryerson, I'm Senior Director
of Digital Strategy at the USTA. Jacob: Dumb question, what's the USTA? Brian: The US Tennis Association. Jacob: And tell me about
the USTA, what is it? Brian: Yeah, so the USTA is the
governing body of tennis in the US. Our mission is to grow the sport of
tennis across the US at all levels. Really, I would say we're more of like a
health and wellness company where tennis is the means to health and wellness. And then the US Open is kind of
our tent pole event that happens every year in Flushing Meadows, and
is really our chance to showcase the sport of tennis at its highest
level to fans all around the world. Jacob: Yeah, I mean the US Open, I
assume most people know this, but it's a Grand Slam, it's one of the, what, four
biggest tennis tournaments in the world? Brian: Correct? Yes. Yeah, every year, especially the
past couple years, we've seen immense growth, and we are very hopeful this
year, and our big goal is to have over a million fans on site during
the three-week window this year. So it's an amazing event. I always say it's a food and wine festival
where tennis is the main attraction, and it's a really fun, unique atmosphere. Jacob: How did you get
into the tennis business? Brian: It's a great question. It's not where I thought I'd end up for,
especially being there for 14 years. So I was a marketing and technology major
in school, and I also played college lacrosse, and sports was always a big
part of my life, and always wanted to be in the sports and entertainment world. I'm here from the New York
area, this is where I grew up. So I moved back home, and had
a few friends who worked there. And I started out more on the numbers
side of things, and really digital analytics, was really the start of when
Facebook and Twitter was just starting, and digital marketing and all of that. And I went to my first US Open
not really knowing what to expect. And again, I think the atmosphere
kind of captivated me and hooked me in, and I've been there now 14 years. Jacob: And so your title
is digital director. What does that mean? What's your job? Brian: Yeah, so it's an interesting
one, because it's tough to explain to folks who are not in the weeds on all
things US Open or even in the sports world, but really I oversee all of
our consumer facing digital property. So that's the usopen.org, our website
built by IBM, as well as our mobile app. I oversee our content strategy,
our sponsorship integrations. Really anything consumer facing that
happens on the web is under my purview. Even some of our new platform extensions
and gaming and things like that, anything that you can physically interact
with is kind of under my purview. Jacob: And so you've been there
now for 14-ish years, which in the digital world is a long time. How has that sort of digital experience
of sports changed over that time? Brian: Yeah, it's obviously grown. Digital now is, what we say and what
my team says is, it's the number one way to engage with fans that
can't make it to the event, as well as those fans who are at the event,
and how do you enrich their stay. So it's really kind of, you're
tackling multiple fan personas. It's the international fan who's staying
up late to watch in other countries, to the fan here who's maybe watching on
broadcast and we go in to accompany and enrich that broadcast with new stats
and insights, to the onsite fan who bought a ticket and maybe doesn't know
what match is happening on what court. We do have 20 plus courts happening at
a time with all different matches, so really try to help all fans navigate
the US Open the best way possible. Jacob: And so what are some of the sort
of problems you're trying to solve? What are some of the hard
things about your job? Brian: Obviously technology
changes at a rapid pace, right? So I think part of it is, how do we
stay on the forefront of that, and how do we do that in the best way and make
the best fan experience possible, and the best user experiences possible? That's always kind of
driving factor number one. Then number two, it's understanding
and listening to our fans and what kind of content they want. You'll hear me talk a
lot about storytelling. I feel like there's a lot of storytelling
that happens around the US Open that really, really want to bring to fans. And that can be as simple as storytelling
of what's happening today and what you should be watching to, maybe it's your
favorite players and what's going on behind the scenes with them to, even
introducing, I want to say the casual fans to who they should be watching, why
they should follow certain players, and more bringing that player's story to life. Jacob: Yeah, I mean I feel like almost
the whole point of sports is to create stories for us to follow, right? They're engineered to be stories. Brian: Exactly. Jacob: This thing is happening in front
of you, and there are two antagonist, and the stakes are high, and you
don't know how it's going to end. It's built to be a story. Brian: And that's the main challenge of
the job is you can plan, plan, plan, but once you get two players on court and you
don't know what that outcome's going to be, it's now sitting, and waiting, and
watching, and you become a fan yourself, and then it's, how do you really captivate
that story, and how do you narrate it, and how do you translate that to fans? Jacob: And it's like you kind of
have to do it in real time, right? The whole point of sports is you
don't know what's going to happen. Brian: Exactly, and that's the excitement. And it's also, there's so
many different types of fans. There's the fans who want a lot of
enriched data, and their tennis nerds, for lack of better of saying it, and
that they really want to dive deep into the intricacies of the game, versus the
casual fan who maybe just wants more of this high level storyline of what
does this mean, why is it important? So it's really trying to figure out how
to deliver that at scale, and really help fans get what they're looking for, and
the type of content they're looking for. Jacob: So are there specific examples
of how fan feedback has led to specific features, digital features you build? Are there particularly popular
features you've come up with? What are some specifics? Brian: Yeah, some low-hanging fruit type
things that came from fan feedback is simple things sometimes, like managing
time zones of when matches start. Jacob: A persistent problem for those
of us who work across time zones, right? Brian: Exactly. And we do have, like I mentioned,
20+ courts happening at a time, so it's a lot to follow, and how do
you translate that to a fan, whether it's to their native language or to
their time zone or things like that. So that's one thing that
came through fan feedback. And another one, a three to five hour
match, especially when you're having 20+ of them happening at a time is, there's
too much for one person to follow. So how do you start from an editorial
perspective really helping with that storytelling and guiding a fan to like,
all right, whether there's an upset about to happen, or here's your matches to
watch, or even some of the predictions we're starting to put in is, we really
want to guide the fan before a match, here's where you should tune in, to
even after a match of here's what's happened, here's what's important. And we're really excited with some of
the features we've built in the last few years that, I would say really helps us
do that at more scale than what we were able to do with just writers following
a match and covering every single match. Jacob: So I want to talk a
little bit about the partnership between IBM and the USTA. Just tell me about the
work you do together. Brian: So IBM is our official
digital and technology partner, and innovation partner of the US Open. They predate me, it's a
30-year partnership, and it truly is a partnership. So I view the IBM consulting team
as an extension of my USTA team. So we work with them year
round, they design, develop, and deliver the digital properties. They help us provide the tools to
create content, to do things at scale. They help us from stats and
information, and really help us push from an innovation standpoint
to make sure that we are staying on that cutting edge of technology. So I would truly say it is much
more than a sponsorship, where it's truly a partnership to
deliver that fan experience. Jacob: And so what are some
of the specific things that you have done with IBM? Brian: Yeah, so I mean there's
countless ones to talk through. Obviously 30 years ago they helped
us build our first website, and it's kind of grown from there. Over the past few years, I
would say, I think it was 2018 is we started AI highlights. So that was really when we were able
to have all 20 matches going at a single time, we were able to quickly
deliver succinct highlights to fans to our digital platform, so they could
see highlights for every single court. Jacob: Is that video highlights? Is that text summaries? What does that mean? Brian: At the time it
was video highlights. So it was really taking that three to
five hour match, let's say, and cut it down to a three-minute highlight that
could show up within moments after a match ending to our website and our mobile app. So fans could see that all around the
world and really kind of get that three minute overview, what happened in a match. Jacob: And was that AI enabled? Was AI a piece of how to do that? Brian: It was, it was probably
our first foray into AI back then. Jacob: Well 2018 is relatively early. Brian: Yeah, exactly. Jacob: Early for tennis. Brian: Exactly, yeah. It really, I don't want to say
opened up our ability to one, again, story tell, but attract new fans
too is, video has actually been our number one growth area since 2018- Jacob: Makes sense. ... Brian: and I think a lot of
that has to do with the scale of how we deliver that content. Jacob: Using AI and being able
to deliver the sort of video highlight reels at scale. Brian: Yeah, and do it quickly, right? We've always had highlights, but
it was a manual process where you had a video editor cutting through
a three-hour match, selecting the right scene, stitching together, it
would've to get voiced over, et cetera. We really have used AI to make it,
I want to say, much more efficient and speed up that process, and
deliver it more quickly to our fans. Jacob: I mean, it would be a bummer
to get scooped by whatever, NBC News or ESPN or whatever, I'm sure they're
all your partners and you love them. Brian: Yeah, exactly. Jacob: Obviously you want to
have the video first, right? It's your match. Brian: Yeah, and I think it's also
important to us as being the USTA is ensuring that it's not just the
main marquee player, it's that every player in all those storylines, and
that whether it's the main singles draw to or mixed doubles, et cetera,
they all need highlights, and they all have their own stories to tell,
and how do we do that at scale? It was something that before
we had that product, it was not something we were able to do. Jacob: Great. So let's talk in some more detail
about what you're working on. Let's start with the app. Tell me about the US Open app
and the companion website. Brian: Yeah, so I'll start with the
app, and I feel like they serve similar needs, but they're a little different
in their own respective manners. The app, everybody has a phone
in their hands at this point. The app is kind of their guide to,
when I say a million fans on site, we view the app as, we want that to
be their onsite guide and companion. Jacob: A million, let's just pause
on a million fans on site, right? Because like a big, professional,
whatever, an NFL game or something, that's like 100,000, this is 10X that. Brian: Yeah, in a three-week
window, in a very succinct, tight, action-packed window. There's a lot of action coming through. Jacob: A lot of logistics. Okay, so keep going. Brian: Yes. So the app, whether it's finding
the schedules, the live scores, what's happening on court, that's
really the focus point of the app. And what we're really focused on this
year is, how do we build in some of those match summaries into the app,
into our SlamTracker experience? So again, before a match, that kind
of match preview of here's maybe... If you have a ticket, here's what to
expect, here's our likelihood to win, who we are predicting, so you can kind
of get some information heading in. And then after the match it's more
of, what just happened, what it means for the rest of the draw, who they're
playing next, is this the first time this has happened, et cetera, and really
enriching that experience as well. So the app is one, your guide to
what you should be watching, but also then giving you that insights
and context of what's happening on that court as you're watching it. Jacob: It's like the
commentator in your pocket. Brian: Exactly. Jacob: So you used a phrase in
there, as if I already knew it, and I love the phrase, but I
want you to talk more about it. That phrase is SlamTracker. Brian: Yes. So SlamTracker is our longstanding live
scores, I want to say match center. It is where every single data point for
every single match lives, and it really helps showcase what's happening to match. I say it's our broadcast companion. So if you're watching live,
it's our in-stadium companion. It's also the best thing to have
if you aren't able to watch. Jacob: And so like I'm on the app and
there's a thing called SlamTracker? Brian: Yes. Jacob: And I tap SlamTracker, what do I
see on my phone when I tap SlamTracker midday when the tournament's happening? Brian: So before a match, that's where
you get a lot of pre-match content, that's where those live, kind of our predictions,
our likelihood to win lives within that. So likelihood to win essentially pulls in
a bunch of data points, so pass matches how many times the players have played
against each other, even some punditry and other written articles that maybe
our editorial team put out, and really kind of puts a prediction out there. Jacob: And so it's just
a percentage chance? Brian: Yes, exactly. But it uses millions of data
points that come up with that Jacob: Yes. ... Brian: so it really helps you understand
what you're getting into for that match. During a live match, it is every single
point, so point-by-point scoring, as well as in-depth analysis and point commentary. Or also this year I have a live
visualization that accompanies that, that will really help bring the match together. And what I mean by that is it uses
our ball-tracking technology to really showcase the match in near real time. So within seconds delay of where the
ball's being hit, where the players are, and really bring a visualization to life,
and layered stats and data on top of that. Jacob: Is that sort of like, when I'm
watching a match on TV and there's a close call, is the ball in or out,
and they do that thing where they kind of show a sort of video game
version of where the ball landed. Does it look like that? Brian: It's like that,
but for every single shot. So it's not just those close ones. It's our first foray to
bring that match to life. Jacob: And so what do I see on
that kind of view that I don't see from whatever, watching the video? Brian: Yeah, so one, you'll be able
just to see more of the ball trajectory and where the ball's being hit, but
then you can also start layering things in stats and insights on top of that. So how many times has Player A hit
the ball on a certain baseline? How fast are they hitting it? Maybe their served percentage at a
certain side of the court, et cetera. So you can really start layering
in for the ones that really want to dive deep into the- Jacob: It's for the nerds, it's for the... It's the information rich. Brian: Exactly. It's the strategy of tennis. It really should be an interesting
way to slice and dice a match. Jacob: Huh. Malcolm: It's remarkable how the
USTA is leveraging AI to enhance fan engagement and deliver immersive
experiences both onsite and online. Brian's emphasis on storytelling
really underscores the evolution of sports marketing. The SlamTracker feature
particularly caught my attention. It's essentially bringing the
excitement of a tennis match to life in your palm moment by moment. As someone who appreciates the
narrative intricacies of sports, I find it compelling how AI helps predict
and analyze matches in real time. Jacob: Tell me about the
AI commentary feature. Brian: Yeah, I know I mentioned
AI highlights back in 2018. It's now progressed for us and again,
if we go back to before we had AI highlights, to have a highlight ready
for the site it was a video editor cutting the highlight, it getting voiced
over, and then being published to the site, and it took probably an hour+ for
that highlight to really be created. Now with AI commentary, not only are
we creating and cutting the highlights using our AI technology, but it's now
using all the data points that we have around the match, whether it's our live
scoring data, our ball trajectory data, et cetera, and it's really creating a script
to help story-tell around that match, and that's all using watsonx technology. And then using text to speech, we're
able to actually then create the commentary on top of that, which
all happens now within minutes. So our team's able to now create
fully voiced highlights for every men's and women's singles
match to our site within minutes. Jacob: So I know there's a new
feature you're working on for this year called Match Reports. Brian: Yes. Jacob: What are Match Reports? Brian: It's our ability to
succinctly tell the story of a match. So everything that happens in five
hours within that match, down to a couple paragraphs that really
helps a user understand or a fan understand what just happened. Again, some key stats, what's upcoming,
really help us with that storytelling. In the past, when we have 22 courts
happening at a certain time, we would have to pick and choose which stories
we think, or which matches we think are going to have the best stories,
and that's a really hard thing to predict from an editorial perspective. With our match reports now, we'll be
able to have full coverage of every single match during the main draw. Jacob: So of course I want
to talk about generative AI. How could we not talk about generative AI? Brian: Of course. Jacob: What are you working
on with generative AI? Brian: So Match Reports is
the prime example of it. So Match reports would be completely
using watsonx generative AI technology. And really, again, to us it's, how
can we do that storytelling at scale? Tennis is such a data rich sport. All sports have data, but tennis has
a lot of shots, and different shot types, and ball trajectory, and live
scoring data, and umpire chair data, and crowd, and all of that factoring in. Generative AI really helps us take some
of that structured and unstructured data, really one, organize it in a
way, but then help us quickly tell that story at scale to all of our fans. And I think we're really just starting
to scratch at some of the capabilities, and we're really excited about where
we're being, but we also see the opportunity of even how we can grow
to new fans, and new fans around the world using generative AI in the future. Jacob: I'm curious, and you alluded
to this a moment ago, but I'd like to talk a little bit more about it. It seems interesting as a technical
problem is, the nature of turning tennis matches into stories, which is
fundamentally what we're talking about here in different ways and different
media, is about taking both structured data, like the stats points, stats
matches, and also unstructured data like commentary, and articles, and the
kind of fuzzier parts of storytelling. And so I'm curious how AI kind
of helps you manage both the structured and the unstructured data. Brian: So I think the structured data
is pretty self-explanatory, but when you get into the unstructured data and
some of the punditry, that's where you get more of the opinion pieces into it. Like a specific player matchup,
this player always plays well against so-and-so, or they always
play well at night, or they're a fan favorite and the crowd... Adrenaline and the crowd being
behind you can really motivate you to play a lot better. So it pulls in all those unstructured
pieces and helps us really put some more rigor around it, and help add
and enrich our storytelling with it. Jacob: And so I'm curious, when
you're starting to use generative AI over the past few years, what
were your concerns going into that? Brian: I think our biggest concern
is ensuring that one, factually it is correct, because it's only as good
as the data you feed in, and how do you really ensure that your model's
working right, and that the output and the data you're feeding it matches the
output, and how do you do that at scale? So we do have a lot of human intervention. That's where the IBM consulting team,
they're on site with us for those full three weeks really helping us review
everything and we're constantly learning, especially early in the tournament. And I would say the other big
concern, again it goes around to the data is, what data do we have
available that is trustworthy? So we are feel very confident with
the data that comes off of court, but when we get into that unstructured
piece, what are the right data sources? How do we validate those data sources,
and how do we ensure that they're accurate, because the data that has to
go in has to be accurate for the output. Jacob: So how do you do that? That's the concern. How do you address it? Brian: Yeah, so I think there's
a number of tools that we use, all within the watsonx umbrella. We do a lot of training with the
IBM team, so we have to constantly train and retrain that model. I think the other piece that we're
doing is, again, as we're creating that content and we have the IBM consulting
team on site helping us with that, is as we see things and we see outputs,
it's re-feeding that back into the model to make it better for the next time. So it's a constantly learning
process that we're undergoing. Jacob: So I want to talk about scale. Brian: Yes. Jacob: You have what, 22 different courts
with matches going all at the same time. You're trying to approximately instantly
generate summaries of all these matches in something like real time. And I'm curious, in particular how
the IBM models you're using, the IBM granite models are helping you scale? Brian: Yeah, so I think one of the
big learnings we had with IBM granite models too is that we're able to run
it against last year's tournaments and see what the expected outputs
could be, and really help train that model heading into the tournament. Because as we talked about in the
beginning is, we can plan, plan, plan, but once two players get
on court, the outcome is unknown. So how do we really run it through its
paces, and really make sure that whatever that outcome could be, and whatever
that scenario is, whether it's a fifth set tie-break that happens, or maybe
there's a fault at the end the match or something that we're not anticipating,
that we have that accounted for, and that the A won't throw off that output. So we really try to think through every
scenario, which is sometimes difficult because again, live sports is the unknown,
is the unknown, that's what makes it fun. We do spend a lot of time thinking
through potential scenarios, and ensuring that we have the right data
sets and the model to predict that. Jacob: Tell me about Match Reports and the
generative AI model you're using for that. Brian: So Match Reports will be new for
us this year, so we're in testing right now, so we're really excited around it. But the model that we'll be able use
using watsonx will use a bunch of different parts of the suite of tools,
meaning that again, taking some of that punditry and the unstructured
data and the editorial spin, it'll take our structured data as well. And really what we're working on
right now is figuring out the right prompts for the AI to really ensure
that it tells the right structured story, meaning what just happened. So a recap is pretty standard. Here's what the data's telling us,
who won, who lost how many sets? Here's the score. Jacob: That's the structured data part. That's the easy part. Brian: And then really where it
gets exciting is then, what does this mean, meaning, what's upcoming? So there's all these different
scenarios when you get into 254 players and a large draw, this allows
us to distill that down and really tell what could happen upcoming. The AI helps us do that at scale. Jacob: So I want to generalize for a
moment to talk about broader challenges with AI and how you've solved them. A lot of generative AI pilots fail because
the data quality isn't high enough, because the risk controls aren't there. And so I'm curious how you dealt with
those problems, and are dealing with them. Brian: Data quality, again, we feel
calm with the data that is supplied from the US Open and from the USTA, right? So we have, again, that's our
structured scoring data and all of that. I think what we're constantly
looking at is when we get outside of our known sources and out to third
parties, is that's where a lot of the testing and model work happens. So we pull in different data
sources and really try to work through how it changes that output. Again, some of that comes down to
where it's an open model and the transparency that we have, and
the learning that comes behind it. That's where a lot of that confidence
can come from, and it comes from a lot of testing and feeding it more data. Your second question was a little bit
more around the output, I believe, right? Jacob: And risks, right? So risks, I think of risks
more in terms of output, right? Brian: Yeah. Jacob: The obvious fear is like,
what if it says something wrong, or inflammatory, or whatever. That seems scary. Brian: Yeah, it definitely is, and
it was definitely one of our largest concerns when we first took this foray. I would say a lot of that comes
through our work with IBM and the IBM consulting team, and really ensuring
that, again, they're an extension in the partnership there of our team. So whenever we are creating, let's
say it's the Match Report, and we're going to be creating these succinct
articles for every single men's and women's single match that happens, is
all of those will have manual review, and people looking through them for
accuracy to ensure that the model didn't hallucinate or make up a fact, or
fill in the gaps and things like that. That's the first step. And then also when our editorial team
goes to publish those to the website, they're going to be checking it as well. So there are manual interventions
throughout that to really check that model, but we feel that the ability
to do it at scale and with us more to check that, is the efficiency problem
that we've been looking to solve. Jacob: So the USTA and IBM have been
working together on digital innovation for like 30 years, from the first
website for the USTA until now. So that's the past 30 years. If you look ahead, what's the next 30? Brian: 30 years is a really long time. Jacob: How about three? Brian: Yeah. I think where I get excited, and I
alluded to it in the beginning about how I feel like we're just scratching at
the surface, especially with generative AI and where I see it going is, there's
a lot of different fans out there. And we're also very cognizant of the
US Open that we're a worldwide event, and that there's a lot of different
fans that we're not necessarily creating content for bespoke. Meaning, in their native language,
or maybe it's in that native player's language, and things like that is... Where I get excited is we've seen immense
growth with AI highlights, and the ability to now do highlights at scale
is the ability for us to start creating content in different languages, maybe
covering different parts of the match. So maybe you do have that stats junkie
who really wants just, it's the fastest serve and here's the deep insights,
versus the casual fan who's looking for more of the storytelling around how
a player trains, and what leading up to it was like, and what it means for
them afterwards, and things like that. A lot of that takes a lot of time. Now we're able to solve that efficiency
problem and do it in multiple languages. We can really create, I want to say
personalized content to a lot more fans all around the world which, again,
helps us grow the sport of tennis. Jacob: Great. So I want to finish with the speed round. Brian: Okay. Jacob: Are you ready? Brian: I am ready. Jacob: Okay. First thing that comes to
mind, complete this sentence. In five years, AI will- Brian: Transform many
parts of the business. Jacob: What is the number one thing
that people misunderstand about AI? Brian: That it's
supplemental, not replacing. Meaning that it helps with
efficiencies, but it doesn't necessarily replace the creativity right now. Jacob: What advice would you
give yourself 10 years ago to better prepare you for today? Brian: I think it would've been,
especially now that we're able to take so much of that unstructured
data and pass content that we... Were created to help tell stories,
was to, I want to say archive more of that in a way that we could be
using that to help pull from that now. So we've seen kind of a change in
the guard from some of our star players to now new and up and comers,
and it would be really fascinating to me if there was a way to cross
section some of that and saying what trajectories are certain up and coming
players may be following from others. So it's more, I wish we kept more
of the content we created back- Jacob: Save the data. Brian: Yeah, exactly. Jacob: That's what you're
telling yourself, save the data. Brian: Exactly. Jacob: Well, are you saving it all now? Brian: Oh yeah, 100%,
we learned our lesson. Yes, yes. Jacob: Okay. So on the business side of AI, what
do you think is the next big thing? Brian: I alluded to it earlier. I think it's personalization and
getting content that's catered to you at scale, whether that's across
the sports sphere, or any type of written content or news content. I feel like the ability to really
get [inaudible] to the type of fan you are and the insights you
have is where we're all headed. Jacob: And in terms of your non-work
life, how do you use AI day to day? Brian: It's funny, I was just having
this conversation with a friend the other day and we were talking about
that sometimes when you're starting something new, the hardest thing to do
is you have a blank piece of paper or a thought, and how do you get started? Sometimes with these generative models,
the easiest thing and the best thing you can do is it helps you get started. Meaning it may not be a hundred
percent with that first prompt, but it's that efficiency of, whether it's
an outline for a new idea, or it's a marketing brief you have to write. Or sometimes even if it's an email you
have to write for a personal something and you're not sure how to word it
the right way, it allows you to have a start, and then you can edit from there. So again, going back to my efficiency
point, it helps you become more efficient. Jacob: It solves the blank page problem. Brian: It does. Jacob: Brian, it was
great to talk with you. Thank you so much for your time. Brian: Yeah, this was fun. Thanks for having me. [MG OUTRO] Malcolm: A huge thanks to Jacob
and Brian for the deep dive into the cutting-edge innovations
transforming the game of tennis. Brian shed light on how the US
Open’s Partnership with IBM is harnessing data-driven insights to
reshape storytelling in sports, from AI-generated commentary to match reports. As we look ahead, I’m excited about
the possibilities for personalizing content and reaching fans in new ways. The future of AI promises more
than just efficiency—it's about enhancing fan experiences worldwide. [END CREDITS] Smart Talks with IBM is
produced by Matt Romano, Joey Fischground, and Jacob Goldstein. We’re edited by Lidia Jean Kott. Our engineers are Sarah Brugueire
[Brew-Ghare [hard G!]] , and Ben Tolliday. Theme song by Gramoscope. Special thanks to the 8Bar and IBM teams,
as well as the Pushkin marketing team. Smart Talks with IBM is a
production of Pushkin Industries and Ruby Studio at iHeartMedia. To find more Pushkin podcasts, listen
on the iHeartRadio app, Apple Podcasts, or wherever you listen to podcasts. I’m Malcolm Gladwell. This is a paid advertisement from IBM. The conversations on this podcast
don't necessarily represent IBM's positions, strategies or opinions.