Today cryptography is the ultimate line of 
defense that protects our data. But it's based on   an assumption that it cannot be broken by classical 
computers. In the near future, quantum computers   may be able to crack these encryption algorithms. 
That's why every organizational leader needs   to understand the risk to their data and the 
solutions that will make them quantum safe. Let's get to it.  What bad actors and cyber criminals 
can do once quantum computers mature? First   thing they can do is fraudulent authentication, 
which means they can get access to our data--the   secure data that we have in our applications, our 
systems, and our databases. Second thing they can   do is forge signatures, which means they can fake 
the records, fake the audits, and also can make   the fake identity and tamper [with] our blockchain 
assets as well. Third thing they can do is harvest   now/decrypt later, which is very, very important 
for us today. We are understanding that they   cannot steal and decrypt the data today, but they 
will be sitting on it until the quantum computers   mature and they will be able to decrypt that and 
find out the crown jewels from your enterprise.   The first step is to discover. Discover your 
cryptography means you need to identify the   cryptography-relevant artifacts in your business 
applications--source code as well as object code.   What this means is that brings you the visibility 
where the cryptography function library's methods are being used. Once you have them, 
you need to also find out the dependencies   across all of these artifacts and then create a 
single source of truth. A similar concept like   in a supply chain inventory called SBOM (software 
bill of materials). You need to have the concept   called cryptography bill of materials (CBOM). IBM 
has been helping bringing that as a standard as   part of the CycloneDX. And this capability can bring 
you a static view of your business applications   environment. Once you have this, the next step 
is observe. Observe your cryptography means   bringing the dynamic view along with static 
view. Often many organizations have either one   or the other, but you need to have both. And 
as part of bringing both of these together,   you need to have a full inventory of your 
cryptography assets from network perspective as   well as your applications' perspective. And then 
you need to understand how these key exchanges are   happening from cryptography perspective like TLS, 
SSL from your network environments. And then once   you get the full visibility of that inventory, 
you need to prioritize where your cryptography   relevant artifacts are important based on 
your cryptography posture or your regulatory   compliance requirements, and then create 
that list. And once you have the prioritized   inventory of your cryptography assets, you need 
to transform the cryptography by implementing   and applying the quantum safe algorithms, or 
encryption algorithms, or new certificates,   or key lifecycle management capabilities that are 
quantum safe. By doing this, you need to make sure   that you are also following a process that you 
can achieve crypto-agility. What we mean by   crypto-agility is that [is] how can you reduce the 
burden on development as well as the operational   environment so that it's not disrupting your 
existing systems and applications--and rather   giving you an ability to move from old algorithms 
to new algorithms seamlessly, which means you can   have crypto-agility as a service capabilities, 
starting from encryption, key lifecycle management   and certificate management capabilities that 
would be quantum safe. And whenever you need   them in your business applications, you can simply 
make an API call when you need a new encryption,   when you need a new certificate, when you need a 
new key in general. So this helps you bring a full   capability across Discover, Observe and Transform. 
Now you understand the three key steps. What tools   should we use to get to your journey to quantum 
safe? IBM Quantum Safe Explorer helps you discover   your cryptography by scanning the source code and 
object code of your enterprise applications. Also,   it can create and generate the CBOM, what we 
call the cryptography bill of materials. This   gives you the static view of your IT enterprise 
applications. IBM Quantum Safe Advisor can help   you bring both the static as well as the 
dynamic view of your cryptography assets   and also prioritize them based on the cryptography 
posture in reference to your compliance and the   vulnerabilities. IBM Quantum Safe Remediator 
is a capability that can bring and allow you   to remediate with quantum safe algorithms, 
quantum safe key management capabilities,   as well as the certificate management capabilities 
that can allow you to be crypto-agile. And there   are a set of remediation patterns that are part 
of Remediator that can enable you based on your   requirements in terms of VPN, in terms of 
proxy, in terms of TLS connections. All   of those remediation patterns are based on 
the best practices that we know as of now,   based on our current client needs. IBM Quantum 
Safe can help any organization not only prepare   for the post quantum cybersecurity landscape, but 
also improve and maintain their cyber security   hygiene overall. How your organization can prepare 
for the quantum era--Check out the links below.