How do you handle security in a multi-cloud world? Many companies today are moving some or all of their application topologies to the public cloud, which leaves them with a multi-cloud environment that they need to manage. And this introduces a number of risks when it comes to handling challenges around security  and compliance. Let's took a take a look at an example of
a fictitious company, a bank called Demo Bank, and how they handled this journey to multi-cloud while maintaining the security and compliance they needed to keep their customer's data safe. So let's start at the beginning. Demo Bank has a mobile application that allows their clients to check their balances and transfer money between accounts and do all the things that most people can do on mobile  banking applications. Their customers are reasonably happy, and they're providing industry standard capabilities for a mobile application. Their IT operations team is pretty happy as well because, since all of their components are running inside their data center, they're easily able to monitor the security and compliance of the entire architecture. But Demo Bank wants to modernize. They want to give themselves the ability to take advantage in the future of public cloud services and add new capabilities to their application. So the first thing they do is they move their application to microservices, and what microservices does, it allows them to decompose their application into smaller components, which gives them advantages because they can be developed quicker and independent of each other, and they can also be portable and move potentially to a public cloud should the company wish to do  that. So, once they've gone through this transformation, their customers are in about the same spot as they were before. The application is exactly as it was before. The IT Operations team is happy. They still have a security compliance view
that covers the entire data center. All the components are inside the data center. But Demo Bank isn't done. Their modernization journey takes them to adding a new microservice, a virtual assistant. This virtual assistant will connect to services in the public cloud. In the public cloud, they'll take advantage of artificial intelligence services, weather services, and traffic services to provide their clients with the closest ATM to them and updates on whether that impending snowstorm is going to close their branch office in the next couple of days. This, of course, makes their end users very happy. It makes their developers very happy because they get to take advantage of new cloud services and build them into their application. Operations, on the other hand, has some concerns. By opening up this connection to public cloud services, we've now exposed potential risk to secure client data in the system of record out to public cloud services. This can expose Demo Bank to things that could tarnish their brand, could cause them to lose customers and lose shareholder value. So what's the solution? They need to bring in a single central control plane that allows them to put compliance policies across all of their application components, both on-premise and in the cloud, that lets IT Operations check the box, be happy that they have security and compliance in the same way that they did when they were managing the application on-premise. So, at the end of the day, when you add a multi-cloud environment plus a control plane for governance and security, your developers get to have their cake, and your CEO gets to eat it too when it comes to new clients and not ending up on the front page of the Wall Street Journal for losing your customer data. Thank you for watching this video. To learn more, check out the next video in the series where you can learn how the IBM Cloud Pak for Multicloud Management can help you with all of your multi-cloud governance, risk, and security needs.