What are you most excited
about coming out of CES? Shobhit Varshney is Senior
Partner Consulting on AI for US, Canada, and Latin America. Shobhit, welcome back to the show. What do you think? NVIDIA's DIGITS. The supercomputer right next to my laptop. Mwah. Love it. Great. Uh, Skyler Speakman is a
Senior Research Scientist. Skyler, welcome back. Uh, what are you most
interested coming out of CES? As a long time PC gamer, absolutely the
new line of graphics cards coming out. And finally, last but not least,
Volkmar Uhlig is Vice President, AI Infrastructure Portfolio Lead. Volkmar, uh, what do you
take out of CES this year? I'm with Shobhit, it's the DIGITS. All right, all that and more
on today's Mixture of Experts. I'm Tim Huang, and welcome
to Mixture of Experts. Each week, MoE is dedicated to bringing
you the debate, news, and analysis you need to keep up with the top
headlines in artificial intelligence. Today, we're going to be talking
about a new report on developer use of AI tools, some trouble with Apple
Intelligence, and Sam Altman's reflections on the second anniversary of ChatGPT. But first, let's get started. Let's talk a little about CES and
Shobhit, maybe I'll kick it to you first. We're all very excited by DIGITS. For those of us who are not obsessively
watching all the headlines coming out of CES, what is DIGITS and
why are you so excited about it? So the intention here is, uh,
shrinking their DGX, uh, all the way down to a small machine, So NVIDIA has figured out a way to
squeeze in a lot more, uh, firepower. Their graphics, uh, GPU card with an
insane memory, 120 GBs attached to it. So you can start to run some really
large AI workloads on your desktop. Imagine a 200 billion parameter model,
which is way bigger than what ChatGPT was when it came out two years back, right? You're able to run that locally,
right next to your machine. Now, it comes with a flavor of Unix on
it, but you can obviously, instead of Linux, uh, you can have your Mac and
Windows use that as a server, and you can do some really cool things, right? But now you're talking about having
personal supercomputers that you can literally keep on your desk or
potentially even carry with you. It won't be out till May. It's about $3,000, which just looking
at the hardware that's going in that itself is a ridiculously great price
point to go deliver that, but this starts to move computing from the cloud
supercomputing all the way down to your desk, so petaflops of compute at your
desktop, and that just is an insane value. Yeah, absolutely. I know Volkmar, you were saying that
you were excited about this as well. I know, I think we've talked about
it in the past, but if you want to give our listeners a little bit of
an intuition of why is NVIDIA moving into this market at all, right? Like, arguably, doesn't this put them
in competition with like, Apple and all these other kind of, you know, kind
of desktop personal computer creators. Whereas NVIDIA's usual thing
has of course been data centers. Do you have a sense of why
they're moving into this market? Yeah, I would not say that NVIDIA
traditionally is a data center company. They are a gaming company. So, and the data center kind of came
along and hit them three, four years ago. Right in the face, yeah. Um, yeah. And you know, good for them, they
captured it and was just visible in their market capitalization. Um, I think what NVIDIA is figuring
out right now is that, um, the development market, uh, or developer
market was kind of limited to, you know, buy an RTX and stick it into
an, you know, developer machine. Uh, and now they are effectively
going all in of saying we need to cover this whole value chain creation. And I think it's very, very hard, um,
like today, because you, in fact, you need to buy, um, like a Windows or Linux
box and then, you know, you, you stick in a bunch of NVIDIA cards and, you know,
you rake this thing up and now they are effectively coming out and saying, okay,
here's a ready to go system, which is optimized for that specific workload. Um, I think. When you see what Apple did with
the M-, you know, M1 to M4 now, they are effectively trying to
capture that desktop market. And that is not CUDA,
and that is not NVIDIA. And I think NVIDIA is doing
a preventive strike here. And if you look from a pricing
perspective, they're sitting right between the smaller Apple, you know, Apple Studio
for $2,000 and the bigger Apple Studio for $4,000, and so they are at $3,000
and they have specs which are bigger. And so I think it's, um, and, and
now it's also, it's an attachment, but it's at the same time, you can
use it as your primary desktop. So I think they are- they are are
effectively trying to cover their bases. What will be interesting to see
as, you know, what people are now doing, if you can just, for
$3,000, you can get that box. It's not a DGX, but you know, in
many cases, it may be sufficient for running small scale training jobs. Um, and so I can, you know, imagine
that people are just buying them by the truckload and putting them in
up in data centers and giving their developers, not necessarily something
on the desk, but, you know, maybe it's tethered, but it's on, on premise. Um, and so it's a really
good way of actually getting that development loop going. And you could even use it for
production use cases, right? So if you don't need a 19 inch rack
solver, you could use something smaller. They, I think at three different points
in the press release from NVIDIA, they talk about how easy it is to take the
models that you've trained on your small DIGITS and move it to NVIDIA's cloud. So I also think they're really pushing
for this hook here in order to drive more business to their data centers. And one of these is start small on your
own personalized local system and make it extremely easy for you to then scale that
up onto, of course, their data centers. So I think that also plays a
lot into the strategy of why they're really pushing this. Yeah. Shobhit, maybe to turn back to you,
What do you do with a petaflop? You know, it's like, it's kind of
funny, like, because it is very exciting, you know, a supercomputer
literally on your desktop, but like, with that level of computing
power, what, what do we use it for? I mean, is it, is it just gaming? Do you anticipate people doing
a lot more homebrew AI stuff? Um, what, what, what
does this unlock, right? If it just really
becomes super successful? So I think that the two different markets
here, one is enterprise, one is consumer. Right? I think, uh, from there will be
some enthusiasts that'll, uh, on the consumer side that'll
obviously gravitate towards it. But I think there's a huge
potential on the enterprise side. Uh, what that gives you is being
able to run compute that's closer to where the action is happening. So think about industrial applications
where on the factory floor, you want compute to be right next to where the
manufacturing of everything is happening. Or, one of my clients, uh, large
auto industry, they have a lot of trucks and buses and things of that
nature, and you would want to have some mobile compute that you can
actually run a model on, right? In a lot of these use cases, there's
a lot of latency between calling a server or a cloud API and being,
again, getting responses back, right? Those are expensive. So imagine you're taking, say, a picture
on the manufacturing conveyor belt, right? You want to be able to process those near
to where the images are being captured there's less latency and there's a huge
security concern here right you want to make sure that the data especially if
it is related to something that's very sensitive you don't want that leaving
your premise either so you want to be able to run those closer to it same thing
goes for say defense applications where you are doing something more tactical
in the field you want to be able to compute all the images coming in from
all the drones and stuff at the, at the particular place, because you may be
in a territory where you really don't even have a cellular connection, right? So all of those are heavy computing
workloads that used to traditionally take cloud environments to go scale up and run. That you're now being able to do closer
to where the action is happening. That's a huge, huge unlock
of value for enterprises. Today, we've been constrained by some
cutesy little small, uh, models that'll be running on mobile devices and things of
that nature, but we're not quite there yet where you can run 200 billion parameter
model right next to where the action is. Yeah, that's really exciting. Well, a lot more to pay attention to. Um, I'm definitely going to
get one as it sounds like many of the folks on this call are. So we'll definitely have to compare
notes once they start arriving, uh, on our respective desktops. Tim, apart from the DIGITS there were some
insanely good things that, uh, NVIDIA, uh, released, uh, during the keynote. There were, like, three different
areas that, uh, Jensen wanted to ensure that people realize that this
is what NVIDIA really does, right? So one was in physical AI, figuring
out a way in which we can model the physical universe around us. a good set of starter AI open source
that can understand the physics and we can start to train things around it. That leads to things, things
like robotics and humanoids around us in our environments. Right? The second big area of unlock was the AI. automotives. Figuring out how do we do autonomous
driving, and you need the whole pipeline of millions of sensor data coming in. How do you process that and make decisions
on the, on the vehicle itself, right? And then the third one was around
digital workers, agents doing regular day to day work as you and I do inside
of all the softwares that we work with. Jensen spent 90 minutes on this
on stage wowing the audience. That's no easy feat, right? If you analyze the entire 90 minute
conversation you start to realize how an incredible communicator
he is, breaking down a concept, complex concepts into such clarity. So in each of those different sections he
proved that NVIDIA is in fact a leader. They are making some bold moves to ensure
that the ecosystem comes along with them. They just bought, run:ai for
maybe $700 million they turned around and open sourced it. It's such a baller move, $700 million
and then you open source it, right? So they're trying to ensure that
the entire industry moves closer to this physical AI and agentic
AI and autonomous driving era. And they want to be the backbone
across each one of them. Uh, last year they had, uh, in the, in
the gaming industry and, and Skyler's going to, uh, chuckle on this, right? The four, the, the four, the
40 series of their, uh, of their chips used to be $1,600. They just released an equivalent
compute for $550, right? So just imagine, Apple will never do this. They'll never take a $1,600 thing
and the next iteration being a third of the price, right? So you're getting to this point where,
NVIDIA wants to make sure that the compute is as easily accessible and
democratized as plugging into electricity. But they want to be the electric
superpower of the entire world. And if you look at those three
different areas, my hot take, NVIDIA is undervalued right now. IBM is out with a new developer report, um,
taking a look at, uh, developers views on the use of AI tools in their workflow. Um, a couple of very interesting data
points, but I think the place I wanted to start is, uh, really, I think on this
really interesting result where, you know, the developers were asked, okay, so
what do you want most out of an AI tool? You know, the comment was, well, we
want things like trustworthiness in the AI, and it should be reliable and
all the things that you would want. And then they were asked, well,
what are the current problems with the existing AI tool set? And it was exactly those same things. And so I do want to really ask this kind
of question of the group, which is, does feel like despite all the hope- hype
around code assistance and agents in developing and all this kind of stuff
that we've been talking a lot about. Um, it seems like ultimately that
there still is this big trust gap and it is actually preventing
adoption of a lot of these tools. And I guess maybe Skyler, I'll
turn it to you first is, you know, do you see that as a big problem? Like, do you think that it's
ultimately going to kind of put a ceiling on the use of these tools? Um, and, and what, what
should we make of this? Like I'm, I'm kind of, it was sort
of an interesting result for me. I'm not sure about a ceiling is the
right term, but certainly delay. Um, I spent, uh, a good time, uh,
last year, end of last year, um, in San Francisco at this International
Network of AI Safety Institute. So this big congregation. And the topics are, of course, around
safety, robustness, trustworthiness, and those are the topics of the day
in this and, uh, here when I talk to would be clients, they aren't
concerned about overall accuracy. That's not their concerns. It's how are these machines reaching
their conclusions and can we trust them? That's the back and forth we have
now, not accuracy or even costs. So it's a concern at a global
level and even at just kind of an individual client engagement level. So yes, it's been part of an IBM
research strategy for many years now. What can we do with trust
and governance in this space? Lots of lots of work to be done there. Yeah, that's right. And I think there's kind of one point
of view and Volkmar, I don't know if you agree, you know, working with a lot
of folks who are kind of in the nitty gritty of the technical aspects of this
is, you know, I think the AI person's response also is, well, what do you care
about, like trust or reliability, if it just works, then it just works, right? Like, you kind of think about like
the early days of like Google, where it's like oh the Google Image
Search, there's this GPS thing that's going to tell you where to go. Yeah, sure I don't trust that. And then over time it just turns out
like the fastest way to get from point A to point B is just to put it into GPS
and kind of people get over uh, Like their fear about not really knowing
how these systems make decisions. Do you think that'll kind of be
the case here with kind of these, all these developer tools that
say we're going to do code gen. Uh, and you're like, I don't
really need to understand cause it just works and I'm moving faster
than developers that are not. I don't think so. So the way right now the development
works usually is, and I hope this is how it works for most companies, is you
use the code generation kind of as like, okay, I know what algorithm I want. And I can, I can proofread it. So I can proofread code about 10
times faster than I can write code. Right. And so if I go and I need to build
something, I'm just going to an agent and then the agent produces the code. I'm still checking that the code works and
there is still, you know, an architecture behind it where you are saying, you
know, you're kind of interacting with the system and you're, you almost have a, um,
you know, uh, an engineer at your hand who is very fast and doesn't get tired. So, uh, and, and you still need to do
all the engineering practices we have. You still need to write unit
tests, you know, you still need to write integration tests. And so there is a, there is a rigor to it. Now, if you have bad engineering practices
and you don't write unit and integration tests, then you may actually put, you
know, litter your code base with bugs. But that's more of an organizational,
structural problem, right? So do you allow code which is
untested in your code base? And, you know, a developer can make
mistakes and the model can make mistakes. And we are primarily now asking,
you know, who has the higher likelihood to get it right? Um, in the end, confidence in your
code base will always come from, you know, test coverage and reviewing
that the tests are written well. And typically in engineering, you're
saying, you know, your test should be 10 times easier to understand than
than the code you are actually writing so that you actually know you it's
easier to to check that the tests are correct than the code itself is correct. If you follow those practices
I think you will discover the bugs which which get introduced
but if you don't yeah good luck. Yeah definitely. So do you think that the this report
is mostly just revealing the fact that you know effectively the sort of AI
engineering is still more buggy than humans like that effectively like the
lack of trust is kind of well warranted. I think we are not at the point
that I can go blindly to a model and say produce me 10,000 lines
of code And they will be correct. Um, I think the big challenge is
that Um, you know, humans are lazy. Um, and so there is, there is a
tendency that we are overconfident what the model is doing. Uh, and if you do that and we are not
very skeptical about the output and we don't, you know, review it, we will
actually get bugs into the code base. Um, I would flip it around and say the
more Um, like, open ended question we have right now is where we are actually putting
the model in the middle of the execution. So there's one is the, is the, you know,
code generation, but I can review this. What if the, if the model
actually executes code? And we see this right
now already in ChatGPT. You ask it a random question, and it
goes out, and it produces actually Python code, and then it runs the
Python code, and it gives you an answer. But then you look at the Python
code, it may be buggy, right? And so sometimes the code doesn't, doesn't
even, you know, like, um, when you do data aggregations, uh, you know, you
have like a table and has like, you know, five values in the first column and seven
values in the other column, and then says, oh, Panda, sorry, I got an exception. So that, you know, and
this happens in real life. And so you get these answers,
which are just bogus, uh, simply because the code generation and
then the code execution is wrong. And so that's, I think where it
becomes much more scary where we are doing this on-the-fly code generation. Uh, and I do not think that with the
current accuracy, we are there yet. And so, for small things that may
be okay, but for large things, I think you still need human eyes. Will that go away? Yes, probably. Over the next three, four years,
we will get to a point that, you know, the code will be better
than what a human can produce. Shobhit, to bring you back into this
conversation, I gotta believe that this is like your life, right, is like,
customers and clients saying, well, I don't know if I trust this stuff, and
then you being like, no, the water's fine. Um, I'm curious how this is kind
of playing out in your world, because it feels like this is
like a conversation that you have day in, day out, all the time. So, from an IBM consulting perspective,
right, we have very strict, uh, guidelines and warranties and things of that nature. For any code that IBM produces for
an end client, we have to be bound by what our master service agreement
says, and what will go into the code, is it copyright free, things
of that nature as well, right? So there's a pretty high bar
for when our team members are producing code for our clients. And I think over time, you're
starting to see that the quality of the engineer that is leveraging
these copilots matters a lot, right? If you are a software architect,
somebody who's senior, who knows how to make interns work for you, right? So say we get you some brilliant software
developers and they have these parts of brilliance, they'll show you some
code that's like, oh my God, I don't believe that this intern wrote this. And you realize that they actually
copied it off from- from Stack Exchange and they modified it a little bit
or something of that part, right? So it was brilliant, but it was
because they had access to other things and stuff like that, right? But unless you know how to judge
that piece of code, it's very difficult for you to even think about
putting that into production, right? So the, the bar of the manager
for intern is pretty high. Similarly, when you get a copilot who
is behaving like an intern and you're trying to ensure that the person who
is, uh, who's using that copilot should understand how code is written, right,
to, uh, to the earlier points we've made. We need to know what good looks like,
but if the code is being generated 100 percent by, uh, by a copilot,
then it's very difficult for you to understand what logic was used. Right? Earlier you said that you can just
proofread a code, but then you need to be really good enough and have
done this over and over again before to understand what to even look for. What's happening in reality
today, 70 percent of the code gets generated and it works pretty well. The last 30%, the last
mile is where we get stuck. Right?
It's an iterative process. It takes one step forward, but then it
ends up taking two steps backward and may introduce some other bugs, right? So unless you really know how you, how
the code was written, how you would have written it yourself if you had
the time, You're not really able to get to that 100 percent unlock of value. So this tandem between a human and
copilot, we also need to figure out a little bit better on how
to ask the right questions, how to create the right test cases. And I think having an agent that's going
to go review and be the peer reviewer for the code that's being generated,
we're moving towards that place. A lot of our deployments with our
clients, when we introduce other agents to review the code, review the
errors, that multi agent is delivering higher quality code for our teams. Then what we got from an LLM that we
just start spitting out the code into it. It's really interesting to think
about this is like part of like a maturity of the overall AI
tool chain that needs to happen. So like the lack of trust is the fact that
we have this AI code gen thing, but it's really not connected to any other AI tools
around it, sort of is what you're saying. It's a new year. We can be optimistic. One of the insights from the same,
from the same study, what was the lowest item on this list of 10? The one that people, the developers
don't think is a problem, and I think is really interesting,
it was the quality of the LLM. So the, these developers are, I think are,
are correct and convinced that The LLM quality is going to continue to increase. That's not one of their concerns. Um, and it's, it's really interesting
to see that sort of play out here as the lowest of the 10 options given here. This came up about half as often
as the trustworthy issues did. Um, so I think that's, that's a
pretty interesting takeaway from here. LLMs will get better. How we integrate them into the
decision making process, that's a different story, but I think there is
kind of a global optimism that these LLMs Are going to become stronger. For our next segment, we're going to talk
a little bit about Apple Intelligence. Uh, there was a really interesting news
story that popped up in the last week about how, uh, this new summarization
feature that was part of Apple Intelligence had been messing up, right? So this would, be a summary of your
voicemails, your text messages, and importantly, your news stories, your
news headlines that you were getting. And they found that in many cases, Apple
was actually summarizing incorrectly. It was hallucinating. So Apple apologized and promised
that they'd be doing better on the version two of this feature. Um, I wanted to bring up this topic
just because when we talked about this earlier last year, before the feature
came out, you know, the opinion that we had was AI is going to be perfect for
Apple, and they're going to get this so right, and it's going to be so targeted. So I wanted to just go back
and talk a little bit about, were we right, were we wrong? And I guess, I don't know, maybe
Shobhit, I'll throw it to you first on what your hot take is on that. I think it underperforms in
a lot of different scenarios. I think Apple, uh, is using a lot smaller
models to do this on device, to dialing up on the security side of things to
make sure that they're, uh, they're small, can run, they don't- they're
not using some insanely large model to do the summaries and stuff like that. So a little bit of the performance hit,
uh, I believe is happening because of the size of the models that they're using. And we see this in, in real world as
well as we're building multi agent systems and stuff like that too, right? So I think there's a little bit
of, uh, the balance between, hey, should I, make sure that everything
runs on device, and I'm going to constrain it only to a few things. It has to be, it cannot start draining
the battery and a few other, uh, uh, things that they have to solve for. Well, so do I really get a really
intelligent model to go do these summarizations and things of that nature? Skyler, maybe do you
have a similar take or? I think in addition to Apple getting
burned here, I think there's, at least from what I've seen from the
headlines, it's other news agencies that were using Apple technology. And so, for example, the BBC, you
see this BBC breaking news coming up. And it's completely made up. And so the BBC is actually
feeling quite burnt in this. It's not just Apple
with egg in their face. It's partners that they've gone with
because now they're getting these headlines blasted to their customers
with the BBC icon next to it. Gibberish. So I think it's going to be, yeah, Apple
really has to really think about how. Obviously the technical challenges
of getting these hallucinations- hallucinations taken care of. But then how do you really pass that
messaging on to the consumers going through another news agency the right way? Because I think, I think
they got hurt on this one. Yeah, that's right. Volkmar, one question I had in
particular for you, I was having a conversation recently where he was- a
friend of mine was making the argument that like Apple is ultimately like,
they have hardware brain, right? They like, they do hardware, um,
and he was saying that, you know, he's a machine learning researcher
who is like, um, machine learning is like very different, right? It's just like, you throw a bunch
of data at it and then the machine just sort of figures it out. And so its attitude is a lot more
just like, you know, just try it. And then if it works, you know, then it
was like a basically a lot more shooting from the hip than kind of like the
mentality of it is that is to do hardware. And so kind of from this argument, he
was saying, like, culturally, Apple's just like, not well positioned to
kind of like play and win in this space because of like, kind of how
careful Apple is in a lot of ways. Do you think that's right? Like, is there kind of a point of view
here, which is like, in some ways, like Apple was slow to launch the
product, and then it just can't bear like, organizationally the risk of
these things and so it's always kind of always kneecap that like really
launching good features in the space. I don't think so. So the way- like, do you remember
when Apple kicked out Google from their phone and did Apple Maps
and it was a disaster, right? Yeah. And and they took a lot of heat for it. And now it's you know, one of the
main routing applications, right? I think what's happening is Apple
was kind of in a bind because they were late to the game. They didn't build a really strong AI team. This was very visible, like, you
know, I was living in Silicon Valley and Apple was just not there. Like, they were not present. Uh, and now they were effectively
in a bind of, okay, we need to bring something out. We need to make an announcement. So they made a big splash. And they, you know, ship the product,
they try to keep the functionality really limited, but effectively make
a strong statement, Hey, we are going to put something on our devices. We are not like missing the whole thing. Um, and, uh, I think
they had to rush it out. I think fundamentally there
is a backtesting problem. Those things could have been found. If they would have done decent
back testing on very large scale data, they have very large scale
data on the devices they didn't Um, and so now they get burned. Uh, do I believe that will get fixed? Yes Yeah, I think what Apple is
doing is uh, it's defining on edge devices, you know, how you do deep
integration, I think it's still clunky, like the whole, you know, rewrite my
email and rewrite my text messages. It's not good. The models are not good yet. You know, we have much better models out. I think figuring out how to squeeze
something into that form factor with the resource constraints you have,
but the power constraints you have is a really the tough challenge. Um, on the flip side, what we are
seeing now is every generation of a new model, we pretty much get the same
capabilities for the next smaller model. So the 70 billion parameter model
gets to a 20 billion and the 20 billion parameter model becomes 13
billion and 13 billion parameter model becomes 7 billion parameter model. And so, you know, just by waiting 6 to
12 months, we will see capabilities which you know, have only been traditionally,
uh, been able to do in the cloud on a, you know, like two GPUs or so
will be possible to run on a phone. Uh, but if they would have waited
the year, you know, like they would have lost the market. So I think they were in this bind. It's like, okay,
technology's almost there. There's a lot of hype around it. We need to do something,
so let's get something out. And now they burn their fingers. Mm. Yeah.
That's interesting. But it's cool that to think of that,
this is basically like Apple Maps. Again, as someone who just switched
actually from Google Maps to Apple Maps, I'm like, wow, this
is actually in fact way better. Uh, but it was such a funny thing
'cause I remember the initial reputation of it was terrible. So I didn't touch it for... It was terrible like,
you're driving the ocean. That's how I didn't touch it for, so, And it's, by the way,
it's still like that. For anywhere except for
their Apple offices. So we went to Japan and like, you know,
Apple Maps sends you into the forest. That's amazing. Um, Shobhit do you- do
you agree with that? It's kind of like, uh, it seems like Apple
is the most disappointing, but it seems like what Volkmar is saying is like, give
it time like they will eventually win just because you can't be you can't beat Apple. So if you look at the actually, uh, Apple
did a lot in the open source community last year and it's fairly impressive what
they did with their Ferret-UI models. They have these smaller adapter
models can run on on device and things of that nature. The power envelope is pretty low so
they've done an incredibly good job and open source all a lot of that right. There are a few things where I
think Apple, uh, would, has a, has a lead over some of the other
mobile manufacturers and stuff. Understanding of what's on
the screen, as an example. They have some brilliant work that
they've open sourced that lets you understand the different elements, so
you can then build on, on top of that and create apps that can take actions on
the screen, things of that nature, right? So they've done some really good
fundamental uh, work in 2024 and I'm expecting that 2025 they're going to
start taking better use of the compute power going up as well as the fact that
now they've learned so much the challenge with a really really small model and As
you said earlier this year, the model, the small models will get better than
where they were last year and so forth. So we're seeing that that'll
get incrementally better. But the fact that you are picking a
small model to cover news articles from every domain, that is a challenge, right? If you're asking a small model
to do a bespoke piece of domain expertise, that works really well
when we deploy this for our clients. But on an Apple phone, you're expecting
it to understand the nuances of negation and things of that nature on a news
article that could be around biology or it could be around some politics or
sports and things of that nature, right? It needs to have the understanding
of every term that's used in golf. That's different from the
way you talk about it when you talk about soccer, right? Soccer versus football. Things of that nature, right? So you do need a larger model to
the summary, but that's the balance there that they're trying to make. And I think they will catch up in
2025, but 2024, fundamental work that they did was, was really, really good. I think, uh, I really
agree with Shobhit here. Like the foundational work, how do you
think about UI integration, uh, how to think about on device processing
and also the offload and then also, you know, how the, the, the cross. Um, Quest data domain integration, you
know, understanding maps, understanding your calendar, understanding your
email, all that foundational work. I think it's, it's
incredible what they did. And so I, my expectation is that
we will get AI kit too, where also people can bring their own adapters. Right now you can't, but that's just the
next logical step because, you know, you 20 big models live on a phone because
you just don't have the memory capacity. And so. The next logical step is like, okay, I
can take the Apple model and I can fine tune it for my specific domain and I can
load my adapter into it so that I can bring, you know, new AI capabilities on
device and, but have shared base weights. And so this is where, where I think
Apple did this foundational work and by saying, hey, we are providing
this as part of the operating system that, you know, people can build on. And this is, I think, their strength. So they will, they will do that
ecosystem play and give access to it. But, you know, Apple always starts with
the walled garden, you know, and nobody can do anything until they figured it
out by themselves, until they enabled all the applications and then it will become
kind of obvious how, how you build this. And then we'll run it on
our DIGITS, uh, you know, Right.
Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. So for our last segment, let's do a
little final round the horn, uh, Sam Altman on his personal blog, uh, put
out a reflections blog post looking back at the last two years of ChatGPT. Um, there's a lot in it. It's a very long blog post. I think the big thing that came out
of it for me, um, was really just The degree to which Sam still really
believes in AGI as the mission of OpenAI. He hits on it multiple times,
and it's still the big thing he's rallying the company towards. But I kind of wanted to get the view
of all of you on the panel on, you know, what you thought was surprising,
what you thought was interesting. Shobhit, I'm curious if you have any
thoughts on, on the blog post, and if there's anything that you thought
was surprising or kind of worth it for people to pay attention to. Yeah, so he's, he talked a lot about
AGI and I think, uh, we as a community have not agreed to what should be
the levels of defining what AGI is. So I think we need to do a
better job before we can even evaluate people's opinions on
whether AGI is achievable or not. If we don't agree on a definition,
of artificial general intelligence between even humans, right? How do you even evaluate
human intelligence? Ten kids in a classroom or
in high school or in college? It's very difficult for us to
have a good measure for that. So the community in 2025 needs to have
better definitions, just like we did with autonomous driving, different levels and
hear the scenarios, hear the test cases, we should do a little bit better job
of defining that before we can evaluate if Sam is, is really telling truth
about where, how far we are from AGI. Yeah, for sure. Skyler, any thoughts? Uh, hot takes? Opinions?
Yeah, slightly humorous take. I had forgotten that he
was fired and hired back. So kudos to the PR team for that
and it wasn't until reviewing the blog that I had that trigger again. You're like, Oh yeah,
he was briefly not CEO. Exactly. I had forgotten about that. And so I guess that was, if you're
talking for a hot take of reflection and reading that, that's probably
what jumped out at me as it, it just triggered that memory again. So, uh, Um, yeah, that that's my
that's my hottest take of that. That's right. Yeah that's that's such a funny thing
because that was such a big story and I had a very similar experience where I
was like Oh, yeah, that was last year. So, last but not least Volkmar
curious if you've got any takes. Yeah, I I think it's it's a mix of both. So I think you know having been
in you know startups and venture capital for more than 10 years. Uh, you know, I can feel for the pain
he is going through and you know the ups and downs and um, you know, getting fired
from your own company is really not fun. Um, but I think that um, it's really
interesting to see the um, the product evolution they are going through. And, you know, he is pointing this
out, like, you know, we, we did ChatGPT and we released this thing into the
wild and, you know, it's the fastest growing consumer product, uh, ever. Right? So that's really amazing to see
that, you know, how, how AI took off. I think in the end, open AI created. you know, this new wave, uh, they, they
took the risk, um, you know, they figured it out, you know, kudos to him, um, and
now it's, it's really the question, like, I mean, they have, they have this, um,
really big north star of, like, we want to get to AGI, and if you look at, uh,
the, like, you know, 2024 with o1, where they actually say we, we want to get to,
you know, human level reasoning, and they are still innovating, and it's really
impressive that, you know, if you look at OpenAI, um, they are clearly the leader,
I think, in this industry right now. They are defining, you know, the next
steps, and I think it's part of Sam's vision to say we want to get to AGI in
a, you know, human scale time frame. So, and we, you know, every time
they're releasing a new product, it's like, wow, this is possible? You know, I think they are
still driving the industry and everybody else is a follower. So that's, that's really impressive. Yeah, I love that. Yeah, I think that was one big
reflection on the blog post was just this guy who's running this company
seems himself kind of surprised about how fast things are moving. You know, it's like, Oh, yeah,
wow, like we're doing this thing. It's only been two years. And that's like, very fun to see
that even he is like, continually uh, confounded by how things are happening. So, um, well, great. Well, thanks for joining us. Uh, Shobhit as always, Volkmar
as always, and Skyler as always. It's a pleasure to all
have you on the show. Um, and thanks for joining us,
uh, all you listeners out there. If you enjoyed what you heard, you
can get us on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and podcast platforms everywhere. And we will see you next
week on Mixture of Experts.