Hello, hello. Welcome to Smart Talks with IBM, a podcast from Pushkin Industries, iHeartRadio and IBM. I’m Malcolm Gladwell. This season, we’re continuing our conversations with New Creators — visionaries who are creatively applying technology in business to drive change, but with a focus on the transformative 
power of artificial intelligence and what it means to leverage AI as a game- 
changing multiplier for your business. Today’s episode is a case study of sorts. As AI expands its reach to different industries, the healthcare profession is on the forefront of adoption. The integration of AI into the healthcare industry is fostering a more 
inclusive and efficient healthcare system. Pushkin’s very own Dr. Laurie Santos, host of The 
Happiness Lab podcast, sat down for a conversation with Alice Crisci. Alice is the co-founder and 
CEO of fertility care provider Ovum Health. Founded in 2023, Ovum Health consists of a 
multispecialty group of board-certified experts, physicians, nutritionists and patient 
advocates who are passionate about helping moms-to-be with prepregnancy, pregnancy and 
postpartum healthcare. As an online platform, they are able to diagnose, treat, and manage 
conditions from the comfort of patients ’homes. Alice became an advocate for accessible 
family planning when she was diagnosed with breast cancer at age 31.
As a healthcare activist, author, cancer and infertility survivor, she has 
dedicated her life to improving access to exceptional healthcare regardless of income, 
insurance, religion, race, identity or location. Alice and Laurie discuss the barriers to healthcare access, 
the ways in which AI can be leveraged to expand the reach of 
healthcare providers, and how Ovum Health partnership with IBM and the use of IBM  watsonx Assistant platform has been enhancing the patient experience. Just a heads up before we dive in—this 
conversation touches on sensitive topics such as maternal health and fertility. 
Please take care when listening. Okay, let’s get to the conversation. Laurie: Alice, thank you so much Laurie: Alice, thank you so much for joining me. To start off, tell me  a little bit about your current role Alice: Hi, Laurie. Thank you so much for having 
me today. I'm thrilled to be here. My current role is as co-founder and CEO of Ovum Health. We 
are a network of fertility telehealth clinics in the United States. And really, my job is to 
make sure that all the people that we want to serve know that we exist. And to make sure that I 
create a sustainable company so that all the good work that my clinicians are doing really reach the 
millions—truly, millions—of people who need us. Laurie: So your fertility journey began 
at 31 when you were diagnosed with cancer. That must have been awful. Tell me about 
the days and weeks surrounding that news, and what was your life like? Alice: Yes, the way that I've always described it is that the news almost hit the pause 
button on my life. And the extraordinary thing was that it became my full-time job, just managing 
all the diagnostic steps involved. So truly, for the first 30 days, I was in a vortex 
of all things cancer related. And I was one of the lucky ones in that a friend asked 
me, “Are you going to freeze your eggs?” I would never have even thought to 
ask about it had she not brought it up. I went into the fertility clinic, 
and really what was extraordinary is that the day before my appointment at the 
physical clinic, I had a telephone consult. This is before the term “telehealth” or 
“telemedicine” was even a thing, okay? Because it was so many years ago. She called by phone; 
there was no videoconferencing even invented yet. So it was 5 p.m. on a Tuesday, and it was already 
day two of my cycle, and she said to me, “Alice, if you're going to do this, you have to start 
tomorrow morning at 7 a.m.” So I had less than 24 hours to make the biggest decision of my life. 
And at the time I had a boyfriend who was working in the front bedroom of my home. Okay. I walk into 
that room and say, “Okay, I'm all excited. We have to freeze embryos.” And he looked at me and he 
goes, “We're not going to do that.” And I said, “What do you mean, ‘We're not going to do that’?”
He said, “No, I'm not going to do that with you.” I said, “Why wouldn't you do that with me?” And he 
told me then that he didn't think we had a future together.  And in that moment, I was on my own. 
So when I walked into the fertility clinic the next morning, they handed me a catalog of sperm 
donors. So—can you imagine? Okay, I'm already dealing with cancer, completely overwhelmed, 
and I get handed a catalog of sperm donors, and it was all these statistics, so it looked like 
I was picking a basketball team and being like, “Who do I think is going to be MVP this year?”
And I had a friend with me at the appointment who said “No, I think this is going to be so much 
fun.” And I handed the catalog to her and I was like, “Great. You pick.” So part of the journey
was such a massive learning curve so fast. But going through fertility preservation 
helped me focus on life after cancer. So I always fundamentally, deeply believed 
“I'm going to get through this cancer.” But I also knew I wanted to live the life I 
imagined afterwards. And that whole experience started that journey: What is life going to 
look like after I get through all this trauma? But for me, I felt the fertility-preservation 
experience was incredibly life affirming. You know, I loved the self-injections because 
it felt like I finally was doing something for my life rather than having the 
medical community do something to me. Laurie: And—so talk about how that 
experience led you to the founding of Fertile Action and MedAnswers.
Alice: Well, I—I literally walked out of the fertility clinic that same day. The 
business manager had handed me—kind of, like, pushed a piece of paper across her desk to show 
me how expensive the treatment was going to be. It was a $20,000 expense. And I, you know, almost 
flipped out. I thought, “Well, how am I going to do this?” And you could see the look on her 
face. She almost felt devastated that in my time of need, she couldn't just give this to me.
My friend Jen was on the phone with the only nonprofit that existed at the time, who basically 
was telling her I don't qualify. I, meanwhile, was on the phone with my American Express card 
getting an increase limit. So that moment was the first game changer, because I walked out of the 
office and I looked at my friend Jen and I said, “We're going to start a nonprofit. We're 
going to fix this.” I felt offended that there would be, uh, financial criteria to 
determine who gets help and who doesn't. I think—you know, you're, you're 31 
years old. You're at the prime of, of your career. You're still climbing the ladder. 
You haven't made it. I barely had enough years to, you know, put into a 401(k) or an IRA. 
I don't have a nest egg. You know, this was not something that I felt, like, we 
needed to make people prove that they have financial need. The cancer is the need. And I 
was offended that insurance didn't cover it. And insurance was willing to cover a wig. They 
were willing to cover reconstructive breasts. And so it seemed that society was telling me, “It's 
more important to us that you look like a woman when you're done with us than actually produce 
offspring like a woman.” I was really disturbed by that. So that was—the first pivotal moment 
of starting a charity was because I wanted to educate, I wanted to advocate. Laurie: And so talk about how that passion ultimately evolved into  the launch of Ovum Health in 2023. Alice: Well, what ended up happening is 
I was doing all this advocacy work and all this legislative change, and I was 
educating all up and down California. But I also was witnessing the spread of 
misinformation on Facebook groups. At the time, I knew a lot of clinicians, and I had them on 
text, and so these women were asking questions on these groups, and, and I was able to get an answer 
within 15 minutes from my professional network, so I thought, “Okay, well, there's 
got to be a better way to do this.” So with my business partner, uh, the illustrious 
Dr. Santiago Munne, who's a world-renowned reproductive geneticist and researcher—I emailed 
him and I said, “We've got to do something about this.” There's got to be a digital way 
to let everyone have access to the people that he and I know, and they should 
be able to ask questions in a safe, protected environment by actual experts—not 
their peers pretending to be an expert, right? We all have that, that person who's like, 
“Well, I had this experience, and therefore my experience pertains to your experience,” and 
it's just not personalized at all. So I thought, with technology where it's at, there's no reason 
not to create an app that can connect the public with a trusted network of professionals.
That was the first thing that we did, and we ran that for years. So we have over 90,000 pieces 
of clinically validated content. Multidisciplinary specialists who have answered patient questions 
as volunteers, which is extraordinary. But what we saw in the data—because we collected so much 
health information on our users—we saw that they weren't being diagnosed with infertility, yet 
they had been infertile for more than three years. And because they weren't diagnosed 
with infertility, they also weren't being diagnosed with the underlying conditions 
causing infertility. So to me, infertility is a frustrating diagnosis because it's based on time. 
It's not based on labs. It's not based on imaging. It's not based on anything except “You don't have 
the outcome that you want in the time frame that the professional societies has deemed relevant.”
If you're under the age of 35 and haven't gotten pregnant the old-fashioned way in a year, you have 
a disease diagnosis of infertility. The medical community wasn't telling women that in the same 
way that I had someone call me and say, “I'm sorry to break the bad news: you have breast cancer.” 
If we don't know that somebody has infertility, then they're not looking at the underlying cause.
So you have women who are trying to figure out what's going on, and they're, they're turning 
to Facebook groups or they're turning to other online communities. They're—and trying to take, 
you know, this supplement, that supplement, but they're, they're not really going 
through a proper diagnostic journey. And we wanted to solve that. So ob-gyns—even 
though we think of them as the ones that deliver the babies, they're actually not trained in 
fertility. They're not trained in diagnostics for infertility, and they're not trained 
in, in optimizing fertility. And then you have the IVF doctors that are 
the most extreme treatment possible. That has helped millions of babies be born 
worldwide and is a wonderful treatment, but it doesn't need to be the first line 
of treatment. There are so many conditions that can actually be treated to help restore 
natural fecundity, meaning someone's ability to ovulate on their own at the right time of 
the month to ensure that the size of the egg is optimal, to ensure that the timing of the 
egg release is optimal, and to ensure that sperm has the best possible chance of getting 
to the egg for a fertilization event to happen. When you look at all the optimization steps that 
are possible, it's a miracle that anybody gets pregnant on their own, okay? It really is. And I 
think we're all raised with the idea that when we, we want to have a baby, we think it's 
going to be easy and it's going to be fine, because we've spent all of our lives telling 
young people how not to get pregnant. That—we make it seem like they're going to look 
at a man and get pregnant. And that's just not, not what's so. We can help same-sex couples 
optimize their attempt as well. And, you know, that is both on the male side and on the female 
side. So really, Ovum Health was created to solve a huge gap that exists, and it's not just in the 
United States; it's worldwide. Between an ob-gyn and an IVF doctor, so that—we can get all those 
diagnostics done. And then we can do medical nutrition therapy first to start optimizing 
each step of the fertility process, and then use pharmaceutical solutions to kind of take over 
the cycle—ovulatory experience—to make sure that we are helping to craft the, the most effective 
and efficient timed intercourse cycle possible. Laurie: So your situation was just 
so awful, right? Where you had to pay for your treatment on an Amex card.
I'm curious what the current state of access is for family-building treatments in the 
U.S. Is there still this higher socioeconomic barrier for fertility treatment 
compared to other health issues? Alice: There definitely is. And it varies 
widely. So with Ovum Health, we are practicing medicine in a lane that's covered by insurance.
We're not doing anything that falls outside of your normal kind of consultative approach to 
accessing specialty care. Because of this, we're covered by insurance. There are some 
innovative testing platforms that are not covered by insurance. So we work with our patients to 
help them with all their out-of-pocket expenses. We do offer financing in house. 
We offer payment plans. You know, we try to be as flexible as possible to make 
sure that there is no socioeconomic barrier. I have 176 insurance contracts as of today, in 
8 states. I intend to be in all 50 states by the end of next year with insurance contracts. 
My hunch is we’ll have over 600 contracts. That includes Medicaid. So there are plenty 
of things that Medicaid pays for. And it's not just our ability to help someone have a 
healthy pregnancy; it's our ability to help someone have a healthy baby. And that means that 
we have to support women through the reproductive continuum. So what Ovum is really creating is 
being the glue at, kind of, every step of that experience for a woman.
In the IVF setting, yes, there are still huge gaps in coverage. There 
are a lot of programs out there like Carrot and Progyny that have targeted the large-employer 
market as a specialty insurance product. Only 0.3 percent of reproductive-age people work 
for large employers. So it's really important that we still access IVF coverage through your 
basic health insurance plans, like the Aetnas and the Blues and the UnitedHealthcares.
That's where you still have coverage gaps, and so much of that is dependent on 
who your employer coverage is through, and so much of that is if you're self-insured 
or if you're on Medicaid, etc. So Medicaid currently doesn't cover infertility services, 
and Medicaid pays for about half of the pregnancies and live births in America.
So we have to start thinking more broadly about treatment options. Laurie: And so—walk us through a typical patient journey with Ovum Health, from first contact to final outcome. What are all the ways that Ovum helps them build a family? Alice: Yes, that’s a great question. So really, the first thing that we’re looking  at is a diagnostic journey that we want to get people through rapidly.
So in a traditional healthcare environment, if you have to see the number of specialists 
that are under one roof at Ovum, it probably would take you six months to see all of them. And 
you’d have six to twelve different appointments, because that’s how many specialists we’re bringing 
onto your case. So you initially meet with our nurse practitioner to review your medical history.
We do ask you to fill out quite a bit of data, because we want it to be, again, as efficient 
as possible for you. We don’t want to waste your time. We want to make sure that we are well
prepared to be able to ask all the follow-up questions and review that medical 
history so that we can turn around and order your lab work right away.
So typically when someone calls in to us, we actually book four appointments for them at 
once so that they don’t have any delays. We book that first visit. We book the lab appointment 
for them at their local lab. After the lab visit, then our patients get to meet with the lead 
clinician on their case. And that’s usually when they get an initial diagnosis from the 
lab work and the history that we reviewed. At that point, then, we probably need to send 
them for imaging. We need to do fallopian tube evaluation, uterine evaluation, and ovarian 
evaluation. And they then get paired with a nurse navigator. That nurse navigator’s job is to help 
them understand what their treatment options are going to be. The doctor had already reviewed 
the treatment options. However, as we all know, we are trying to take in as much information 
as we can in that doctor visit, and then as soon as we get in the car, or as soon as we get 
off the phone, we think of 30 questions to ask. So we pair them with a nurse navigator so that 
they have somebody to ask all those follow-up questions efficiently. At that point, then, we lay 
out kind of what the next three to four months of their life is going to look like. In all cases, we 
assign them a registered dietitian. So they have a nurse navigator that is the glue of their 
case and helping to facilitate every next step. They’re assigned a registered dietitian and 
they even get a patient advocate, who’s kind of advocating for their insurance, helping them 
understand what else they need, where they need to order it. It could be a custom supplement 
list. It could be an at-home continuous hormone monitoring kit. It could be their molecular 
sperm-testing kit for their partner as well. So we line up kind of the diagnostic journey 
first, but in a lot of cases we’re already starting some medical nutrition therapy, or 
medicated weight loss, or working with the registered dietitian even alongside some of the 
other steps, because we have some of the diagnoses already. We know people who are insulin resistant. 
So we know what kind of diet plan we need to help them with. We know the lifestyle changes we 
need to pair them with. We’re even adding PT into our practice, so that we can customize 
exercise plans specific to somebody’s condition. Laurie: Ovum Health is also launching during 
this pivotal moment in AI. And so I’m curious: was it always the plan to leverage this 
technology for Ovum? Or was it more of an organic evolution to this point? Alice: It was both. It was always my intention that we needed to have AI-enabled  technology to be able to scale faster and to also be able to improve quality control across so 
many states, because how do you really do that? I need to upskill all different levels 
of healthcare providers. Then how do we efficiently kind of manage that clinical 
excellence experience? And the only way to really do that is to create clinical 
decision–support tools that everybody utilizes that are very easy, to make sure that 
we’re managing our care in a consistent fashion. How else could we possibly do it? State by 
state, you know, experience level varies. So that was always kind of the plan. The area that 
I didn’t even know was possible was this area of being able to reach the masses truly through 
an AI tool, through the Fertility Answers app. So when IBM approached me for 
that partnership, the bells went off. I always knew that I couldn’t scale volunteer 
humans. I have a network of over 400 medical professionals across so many disciplines. We’re 
talking MDs, genetic counselors, geneticists, psychologists, ob-gyns, naturopaths, functional 
medicine docs. I have about 13 different specialties, all willing to answer free questions, but relying on that voluntary basis 
is, is not something that can scale. It’s a beautiful thing that they’re doing, and 
it’s created 90,000 pieces of clinically validated content, but we needed to move beyond kind of 
the initial interaction, being a human answering the question, and leverage AI to be able to do 
that. So what was really extraordinary for me is that I had my eyes kind of opened by IBM to 
see what was possible for my practice with AI. Once that seed was planted, then the world 
opened up. We have four tools that we’re working on right now. The first has already been 
integrated, which is the Fertility Answers app. So the initial experience for Fertility Answers: 
women—and mostly women, because they’re the ones downloading the app, but we take men. I promise 
we’re not excluding them! We see both. It takes two. And they have the opportunity to access all 
that content in a personalized way through the IBM Watson Assistant chatbot. So that is incredible.
We’re also deploying a revenue-cycle management tool. You can imagine: with all these 
different contracts that I have—176 contracts, and eventually I’ll have probably 600 contracts—
they all have different price lists. Makes it very difficult to forecast what’s in my 
electronic medical record system for that day, based on the type of insurance. Now, even within 
one insurance contract, they might have hundreds of insurance plans that have all various 
mechanisms for what we can expect to bill. You might have coinsurance, you might have 
a deductible, you might have a copay, and it varies plan to plan. We’re dealing with a level of 
medical literacy in this country that is very low. And the layperson doesn’t understand 
their insurance all the time. How am I expected to be able to deal with truly 
thousands of combinations of insurance plans based on these contracts? You have to 
have AI just to tackle that big-data issue. So we have a revenue-cycle management 
tool that is also helping us with an automated clinical workflow. And that’s—what a 
wonderful partner we have, called CloudAstra, who is also in the IBM ecosystem. So it’s 
incredibly exciting to know that I can come out of a startup mode profitably because 
we’re deploying smart tools from the beginning. Then we also have in development our fertility 
clinical decision–support tool to really scale the clinical experience so that we’re analyzing 
genomic data, lab data, clinical data, and even self- reported data from our users in a way 
that helps our clinicians know what to do next. And that’s all based on standard-of-care 
guidelines, all evidence-based medicine, but built into a really useful tool to help 
them do their job more efficiently. Recently, the international guidelines for PCOS—polycystic 
ovarian syndrome—updated guidelines. There were 200 individual points in these guidelines. 
Two hundred! And that’s for one condition. So imagine you multiply that across dozens of 
conditions. You can’t expect a human to retain that information and to be able to recall it, 
you know, right when someone’s in front of them. So tools that have IBM’s AI enabled are really 
critical to do an exceptional job in healthcare. And then the fourth tool that we’re creating 
with IBM is a medical nutrition therapy tool so that we can scale beyond our registered 
dietitians and be able to help women really optimize their fertility, health, and wellness 
by having a personalized approach to medical nutrition therapy. And that also requires AI. Laurie: So when you decided to go big and introduce AI in so many different ways to scale up your app and, and your business more broadly, why did you pick IBM as a partner? Alice: IBM was an easy yes when we were approached about this partnership, for so many reasons. I'm not an AI startup; I'm a healthcare startup, and it's very important that I don't waste resources 
trying to figure out AI all by ourselves. We needed to be very fast to market and needed 
to be with a trusted partner. IBM brought that to the team right away. But secondarily, the IBM 
team that I've been exposed to is incredible. So from a partnership standpoint, the team has made 
it easy. Joyful. Uh, they're some of the smartest people that I, I've had the pleasure to work with.
And so I think the culture of what IBM's created for startups is very unique. And truly, every 
single aspect of the team that I've worked with, from the developers themselves that build labs to 
the customer-success team to my day-to-day team—I mean, my goodness, it is just a dream team. So 
IBM made it as easy as possible for me to say yes. Malcolm Gladwell: Alice really helped open my eyes to 
the challenges facing providers. In an industry as sensitive and individualized as fertility care, 
it makes sense that scalability would be an issue. But with the help of AI, Ovum Health has been able to solve a few of the extraordinary challenges 
of bringing effective, affordable fertility care to the general public—from multiplying the 
impact of its medical-professional network to enabling more-accurate forecasting of complex 
contracts. Patients are benefiting directly and indirectly from the integration 
of AI across the healthcare journey. Laurie: A lot of people have nuanced health questions that are unique to them due to their own personal health history, maybe their lifestyle factors, or specific medication they're taking, how does the fertility bot personalize all its responses Alice:Yeah, that's a great question. So when we onboard our users, we do ask them to fill out quite ab it of health information, and we have 99% compliance rates on the health information people fill out. So when you ask a question, you're asking it with all your health information already attached to it. The library of responses then shows 
you questions and answers of people who are similar to you. If that 
doesn't answer your question, you still have a chance to route your question to 
the same volunteer network of professionals that existed before the bot was there. Laurie: And so some problems, especially those related to fertility and 
natal care, require human-to-human connection, right? This is what we're built for as primates, 
to kind of engage with our families. As the chatbot addresses such a personal health need, 
how easy is it for a doctor to interject or for a patient to request care from a doctor? Alice: Very easy, and that was super important to me. One of the things that I love the most  out of IBM was that I had the chance to infuse empathy directly into the bot experience.
I didn't want something that sounded or came off as robotic. But it is incredibly easy in 
the Watson Assistant flow for someone to request that immediate human connection. We have a chat 
feature that gets to a patient advocate right away. We have a feature where they can route their 
question to that network of experts right away. And we have a feature where they 
can book a consult with one of our medical professionals right away as well. Laurie: So you have over 67,000 users now, which is kind of amazing. How do you 
get them to feel the kind of trust and empathy people expect from their healthcare 
provider, especially in the fertility space? Alice: In our case, we have a very human brand. 
So from the moment that someone interacts with our content, they're already experiencing 
clinically validated answers in the form of video. We don't ask people to download and register our 
app upon the first touch point. You know, we are infusing medical education into the community 
through video so that they can start to build that brand trust with us from the beginning. What I've 
noticed is that because our brand is such a human connection, we've built up so much trust.
And it's not just about the app experience; it's also how active our Instagram is. It’s where 
we answer live questions for people—in Instagram Live. So there's multiple ways for people to 
get served for virtually free and in unlimited fashion. We've vetted all the providers 
for them so they don't have to do that. So I think that there's multiple things that go 
into building brand trust. That's why we show sort of the profile of someone who asked a similar 
question already so that they can find themselves in that; “Oh, wow, that person who asked my 
similar question or almost my exact same question also is 37 years old, or also has PCOS, or also 
has endo.” So there are different ways that we are able to kind of get into the psychology of 
our community to make sure that they feel heard. And I think whenever anybody feels truly 
heard, then that trust is, is possible. Laurie: So this season of Smart Talks features New 
Creators—visionaries like you who are creatively applying technology in business to drive change. I 
know that you have a bachelor of science in media arts and design. How does this creative background 
inform what you do as CEO of Ovum Health? Alice: Oh, that's such a great question. I use 
my degree every single day. And I am—I'm not a spring chicken. So I've had that degree for 
quite a while, Laurie. Every CEO has kind of a, I would say, leading skill set. You know, there 
are some that are leading financial-type people. There's some that are leading, kind 
of, business-to-business salespeople. I'm very much a leading marketing-type 
CEO. So for me, the patient experience, the user experience, that human experience is 
kind of everything that I stand for and I'm about, and it must be authentic. And because of the 
background that I have, I love nothing more than coproducing with my chief storyteller, 
Joshua Noonan, who's been with me forever. We love coproducing content. It could be a 
22-second video that, that's educational. It could be an hour-long course, you know, for 
professionals. And so I do feel that I bring that media arts and design background to, kind 
of, my type of leadership. And storytelling is kind of everything. You know, being a great 
storyteller, no matter what your brand is, or no matter the type of leader you are, is the way 
that kind of attracts and connects people to us. And it's, you know, fortunate that social media 
has created this visual world that we live in and this video-based world that we live in as well. Laurie: So you're an activist for accessibility and inclusivity in healthcare. If you could  look years down the line, how do you see creative applications of technology like Fertility 
Answers changing how we talk about women's health? Alice: Well, first I think that these tools need 
to be covered by insurance. So I think what is going to be the game changer in the value-based 
care market is that insurance is going to figure out that by creating a reimbursement mechanism for 
more digital therapeutics, but also for digital diagnostic tools, it’s going to lead to a much 
more cost-effective healthcare society, no matter what kind of insurance type or plan that we have.
So on the accessibility side, those tools are really meaningful to the future of healthcare. 
I would also say that technology creates a more democratized healthcare environment. A lot of 
our patients live four hours from a type of specialist that they need. Four hours! You 
know, a lot of them are at least an hour, an hour and a half from a major lab.
So leveraging these types of tools gets them the answers that they need faster, 
which will lead to better intervention earlier. And that's where we come down to “Healthy 
mamas, healthy babies make happy families.” Laurie: Awesome. That's a great way to end. Thank 
you, Alice, so much for being with us on Smart Talks today. It is such great work that you are 
doing to help women and families. So thank you for all your work and thanks for our chat today. Alice: Thank you, Laurie. It's such an honor to get to be on Smart Talks and it was a delightful conversation. Malcolm Gladwell: That about wraps up today’s episode. 
I want to send a huge thank-you to Laurie and Alice for deepening the way I think about AI’s 
expanding role in the future of healthcare. It was illuminating to hear a firsthand account 
of how providers are already integrating the power of transparent, human-centric generative 
AI through watsonx. It's enabling telehealth platforms to multiply their impact 
and is quickly becoming essential to offering comprehensive care to patients.
As our conversation with Laurie and Alice showed, accessibility has long been an issue facing 
patients, particularly in the fertility space. With the help of technology from IBM, Ovum 
Health is meaningfully expanding its reach to women who previously may not have been 
able to access personalized fertility care. Steps like these are helping to usher 
in a new age in healthcare—one that holds incredible potential for both patients and 
providers. Yet as new technology is implemented, it needs to be done with responsibility and care.
Using emerging technologies in sensitive fields like fertility has the power to 
transform how people receive care—but, as Alice emphasized, only if patient needs 
are central to how we implement solutions. Ovum Health already has over 67,000 users—just 
think of all the pregnancies that have been supported by the platform. And, as we just 
heard, this is only the beginning. It's exciting to see how this new technology 
will continue to reach people in need. Smart Talks with IBM is produced 
by Matt Romano, Joey Fischground, and Jacob Goldstein. We’re edited by Lidia Jean 
Kott. Our engineers are Jason Gambrell, Sarah Bruguiere, and 
Ben Tolliday. Theme song by Gramoscope. Special thanks to Andy Kelly, Kathy Callaghan, and the EightBar and IBM teams, as well as the Pushkin marketing team.
Smart Talks with IBM is a production of Pushkin Industries and Ruby Studio at 
iHeartMedia. To find more Pushkin podcasts, listen on the iHeartRadio app, Apple 
Podcasts, or wherever you listen to podcasts. I’m Malcolm Gladwell.
This is a paid advertisement from IBM.