Hi, I'm Anna and this is how to perform
agentic  retrieval augmented generation. In other words, agentic RAG. We'll need a few packages
for this tutorial. Make sure to install the following
libraries. Next, we'll import the following packages. Then we input our API key and project ID. We've set up our credentials
using a .env file. For this tutorial we're using IBM's granite 3.08b instruct model, but you're free to use any AI model of your choice. The purpose of these models is to serve as the reasoning engine that decides which actions to take. We'll set up a prompt template to ask multiple questions, and now we can set up a chain
with our prompt and our alarm. This allows the LLM to produce a response. Let's test our agent response to a basic question like what sport is played at the US open? Our agent responded correctly. Let's try something a little harder. Like where was the 2024 U.S. Open? The LLM is unable
to answer this question. The training data used for this
model is from before the 2024 U.S. Open happened, and without the appropriate tools, the agent doesn't have access
to this information. The first step in creating our knowledge
base is listing the URLs. We will be getting content from. Here are a list of URLs summarizing IBM's involvement in the 2024 U.S. Open. Let's put them in a list called URLs. Next, we’ll load the URLs as documents
using LangChain's web based loader. We'll also print a sample document
to see how it loaded. Looks good. In order to split the data
in these documents into chunks that can then be processed by the LLM,
we can use a text splitter. The embedding model that we are using is an IBM slate model through the watsonx.ai embedding service. Let's initialize it. In order to store or embedded documents. We will use Chroma DB,
an open source vector store to access information in the vector store. We must set up a retriever. Let's define the get IBM US Open context function and tool. Our agent will be using the tools description helps the agent know when to call it. This tool can be used for routing questions to our vector store. If they're related to IBM's involvement
in the 2024 US Open. Next, let's set up a new prompt template to ask multiple questions. This template is more complex. It's known as a structured chat prompt
and can be used for creating agents
to have multiple tools available. Our structured chat prompt
will be made up of a system prompt, a human prompt, and our RAG tool. First, we'll set up the system prompt. This prompt tells the agent to print
its thought process, the tools that were used,
and the final output. In the following code,
we're establishing the human prompt. This prompt tells the agent
to display the user input, followed by the intermediate steps taken by the agent
as part of the agent scratchpad. Next, we'll establish the order of our newly defined prompts in the prompt template. Now let's finalize our  prompt template
by adding the tool names, descriptions, and arguments using a partial prompt template. An important feature of AI agents is
their memory. Agents are able to store
past conversations and past findings in their memory
to improve the accuracy and relevance of their responses
going forward. In our case, we'll be using LangChain conversation buffer memory as a means of memory storage. And now we can set up a chain
with our agents scratchpad memory prompt and the LLM. The agent executor class
is used to execute the agent. We're now able to ask the agent questions. Remember how the agent
was previously unable to provide us with the information
related to our queries? Now that the agent has its RAG tool
available to use, let's try asking the same questions again. Let's start with where was the 2020 for US Open? Great. The agent used its available RAG tool
to return the location of the 2024 U.S. Open. We even get to see the exact document
that the agent is retrieving its information from. Now, let's try something harder. This time, our query will be about IBM's involvement in the 2024 US Open. Again, the agent was able
to successfully retrieve the relevant information
related to our question. Additionally, the agent is successfully
updating its knowledge base as it learns new information
and experiences new interactions as seen by the history output. Now, let's test if the agent can determine when to calling isn't necessary to answer the user query. We can test this by asking the wrong agent a question
that is not about the US Open. Like what is the capital of France? As seen in the agent executor chain, the agent recognized that it had
the information in its knowledge base. To answer this question
without using any of its tools. And that's it. In this tutorial, we created a RAG agent
using LangChain in Python with watsonx.ai. The LLM we worked with was an IBM granite 3.08 the Instruct model. The AI agent was successfully able
to retrieve relevant information via a rogue tool, update each memory with each interaction and output responses. It's also important
to note the agent's ability to discern whether tool calling is appropriate
for each specific task. For instance, when the agent already had the relevant information needed to answer a question about the capital of France, it didn't use any tool calling for question answering.