Hi everyone, my name is Briana Frank 
and I'm with the IBM Cloud team.   Let's talk about IBM Cloud Satellite. Today, many enterprises are benefiting from using 
public cloud to build and run their applications.   Being able to consume IT as a service, through 
APIs, at scale, and as needed has transformed how   applications are built. Public Cloud enabled 
companies to innovate in new, faster ways. But the reality is only somewhere between   5% and 20% of enterprise workloads have moved 
to the cloud. That first wave of applications   were focused mostly on new workloads 
or workloads that can easily relocate.   Many applications have requirements around 
security, compliance, latency, regulation,   and performance that mean those workloads can't 
easily move into a public cloud. Enterprises need   an ability to gain the benefits of public cloud 
anywhere they need their applications to run.     What would help these enterprises is 
something called Distributed Cloud.  Distributed cloud is a new cloud computing 
model that extends public cloud services   to any location. This means companies 
can now run not only in their primary   cloud provider's infrastructure but on 
premises, in other cloud providers',   in third party data centers or colocation 
centers, or at the edge - in factories,   distribution centers, stores, hospitals 
and ports - with everything managed from a   single control plane. IBM Cloud Satellite is 
our new distributed cloud capability. With   Satellite you can take advantage of the 
catalog of services from IBM cloud with   industry optimized security and compliance 
and leading AI capabilities anywhere you   need it. All with a common API, user experience, 
management dashboard and user consumption model.   To see how IBM Cloud Satellite works, let’s 
take a look at a couple of real-world examples. We’ll start with the financial services 
industry.  On the surface, the financial   services industry might seem like it's all about 
money, but it's really all about technology. In   order to compete, financial institutions 
need to create exceptional user experiences.    To do that, they leverage AI and trading 
algorithms to stay ahead of the market. To be competitive financial services clients 
need to iterate quickly and leverage cloud-native   tools and best practices. However, the financial 
industry is heavily regulated. So, they need to   be able to keep that data secure and compliant 
- which often means there are restrictions on   where that data can live. IBM Cloud Satellite 
can help solve this conflict.  These financial   services companies can now extend public cloud 
services in their data centers, allowing them   to leverage cloud native best practices and meet 
their security and compliance obligations, all at   the same time. So, Satellite enables you to take 
advantage of a public cloud consumption model,   but in many different locations - and you don't 
have to be an expert in running these software   stacks to run them outside of the public 
cloud. Let's take a look at another example,   this time in the construction 
industry, where worker safety is key.   One of our clients is leveraging distributed 
analytics to keep workers safe.   In this scenario, you might have a business, or 
an office building that is under construction,   and you need to be able to leverage video 
analytics to tell if someone is wearing a hard   hat or not - and warn them before they move into 
a potentially dangerous area of that building.  They want to use video analytics to 
automatically detect this situation,   but latency could be a real problem - if you 
warn someone too late they could be injured. So, let's take a look at how 
this scenario might work. To solve this safety problem, you need to be able 
to analyze video data from many cameras all over   the office building, but it's impractical to send 
all of that data back to the cloud to be processed   remotely. It would be better if the video 
processing happened close to the actual device.   Traditionally, that would require you to install 
servers and software and manage them on-prem.   With IBM Cloud Satellite, we can extend 
the public cloud into the office,   so we can leverage cloud services to run 
this application close to the device - and   that's critical in ensuring that we can 
reduce latency and effectively warn someone   before they enter a dangerous 
area.That same client in this   worker safety scenario had to adjust to 
challenges brought by the Covid pandemic. They were able to quickly iterate on 
their application and modify the use-case.   Now, instead of warning workers about 
wearing hard hats, they can make sure   that workers are wearing masks and ensure 
that the masks are being worn correctly.   They can even leverage thermal devices to 
take temperatures. With IBM Cloud Satellite,   you can quickly address unforeseen challenges, 
leverage cloud benefits in any location,   and innovate quickly. Anytime. Anywhere. thank you 
for watching if you have questions please drop us   a line below if you want to see more videos like 
this in the future please like and subscribe