While most companies understand the benefits of 
automation and have even adopted some automation   capabilities into their operations, it can 
be challenging to achieve the full value of   an automation solution. Especially when faced 
with potential challenges like prioritizing, or   scaling automation projects across the enterprise. 
Businesses need an automation solution that will   identify what processes and projects will be 
best served by automation for the greatest ROI.   With flexible deployment options that allow 
them to get started quickly and easily.   And finally, they need an intelligent automation 
strategy that can be incorporated into existing   systems and scaled easily. Enter IBM Cloud Pak 
for Business Automation. With a modular set   of integrated software, Cloud Pak for Business 
Automation is built for any cloud and offers a   broad set of AI-powered automation capabilities, 
including process mining, RPA, content, capture,   decisions, and workflow. You can integrate it into 
your existing environments wherever you are today   and scale easily while bringing security 
and transparency to your operations.   As an AI-powered automation solution, you can 
use IBM Cloud Pak for Business Automation to   augment your workforce with AI and digital 
employees freeing your human employees to   focus on higher value work. Automate your core 
operations to improve efficiency and productivity.   Create business applications easily with no 
and low code tools to give business leaders   the agility to deliver better customer 
experiences. You can apply actionable   insights using deep learning to obtain 
AI-powered recommendations for shared data.   And apply intelligence to processes and tasks for 
more agile operations and continuous improvement.   And finally measure impact with built-in 
analytics to track your business performance.   IBM Cloud Pak for Business Automation is 
already helping to transform operations   and speed innovation for a variety of businesses.   For example, by achieving straight through 
processing for 97 of new margin and option   requests, TD Ameritrade maintained top-notch 
customer service during skyrocketing demand.   By enabling financing applicants to submit 
documentation for mobile devices, Turkcell   reduced approvals from days to minutes. With IBM 
Cloud Pak for Business Automation you can make   every experience and process more intelligent. 
If you have any questions please drop us a line   below. And if you want to see more videos like 
this in the future, please like and subscribe.