Unless you’ve been living under the rock the past 
few years it is very likely you use Software as a   Service, or SaaS, on a daily basis for business 
and as a consumer. SaaS is one of the three main   categories of cloud computing, Infrastructure as 
a Service, or IaaS, and Platform as a Service,   or PaaS. Out of the big 3 cloud computing models, 
SaaS is the most popular and commonly used one,   AND the great thing about it is you don’t have 
to be a developer or an IT expert to use it!   So, SaaS in a nutshell is a method of delivering 
software and applications over the internet via a   subscription model. This a game changer compared 
to our traditional software model used prior to   the emergence of cloud computing, where users 
would have to manage, install, and upgrade   software themselves on local servers or computers. 
With SaaS you can simply provision a server for   an instance in cloud, and in a couple of hours, 
you’ll have your software or application ready for   use. Some key examples would be the email client 
you use such as GMail, the applications and tools   you have on your computer, such as Microsoft 
Office 365 or Adobe Creative Cloud, or even   when you are jamming out to your favorite music 
streaming service, these are all SaaS, providing   productivity apps over the internet. SaaS is also 
used in a wide variety of business operations   today, such as communication and collaboration, 
customer relationship management, billing, sales   management, human resources management, financial 
management, enterprise resourcing planning,   you get the gist, the list goes on and on. So, 
unlike our other cloud computing service models,   SaaS is the very top of the IT stack and has the 
highest level of abstraction. So, this means the   cloud service provider will be providing and 
maintaining all these layers for you in this   stack. So, let's take a look what that might look 
like and see how a user would typically consume a   SaaS application. So I'm just going to go ahead 
and just shift these other stacks over here and   let's slide the SaaS deck right here. Okay. So, 
our users would access a SaaS application within   what we call a multi-tenant architecture, and by 
tenant I mean user. So, you'd have multiple users   all accessing the same pool of resources within 
the stack. So it'd be the same hosted environment,   same hosted servers where multiple users would 
have their own dedicated space to securely store   their data. There's a lot of benefits with this in 
a SaaS application. So let's take a look at a few.   So one you know right off the bat is it's much 
more cost efficient compared to our other models   because again, which is the overall theme of this 
whole video, is cloud service providers would be   maintaining and managing the application 
for you. So, there's no IT overhead cost   and a SaaS application is typically consumed on 
a subscription-based model which is either on   an annual basis or a monthly basis. And 
that includes support typically whereas   with our older traditional models, on-prem, you 
would have a perpetual license where you'd have   a pretty large up front cost and then you'd 
have to pay for support on going separately.   Two, scalability, right. So, you can horizontally 
or vertically scale on demand because again that   cloud service provider is going to be maintaining 
everything for you. So if you need to add more   databases, or you need more compute power they'll 
take care of that for you on a has needed basis.   Another benefit is you can access your 
SaaS application anywhere which is a   huge benefit right now especially if you 
want to mobilize your workforce, right. So   all you need is a web browser and internet 
connectivity to be up and running with your   SaaS application. There's no installation, 
there's typically no plugins involved   and you can no matter where you reside 
geographically, you can always be up and running.   Now I should say if you are looking for a SaaS 
solution there are some instances where you do   need to keep your data in the same location where 
you reside. For instance, with Europe we have GDPR   and by law you have to maintain your data 
where you reside. So, there are going to be   some instances like that, but for the most 
part SaaS is a highly secure solution. And   then last but not least, you always have a new 
version, right. So, once again there's no need to   update your licensing or update manually the new 
version of your software because that's all taken   care for you and it's automatically upgraded. 
And this helps with a lot of wide range of   issues typically if there's version control, 
right. In the past you'd download software   and then you might be operating with something 
that's not compatible with a different version   of that software. So, everyone's on the same 
version of that software and you don't have to   manually update and worry about patching and all 
that junk, everything's taken care of for you. So,   this is just a very quick overview of 
Software as a Service. Thank you for joining.   If you have questions, please drop us a line 
below. If you want to see more videos like this   in the future, please like and subscribe. 
And don't forget you can grow your skills   and earn a badge with IBM CloudLabs, which 
are free, browser-based Kubernetes labs.